manual/rigging/posing/inverse_kinematics.rst, before:


******************
Inverse Kinematics
******************

IK simplifies the animation process,
and makes it possible to make more advanced animations with lesser effort.

IK allows you to position the last bone in a bone chain and the other bones are positioned
automatically. This is like how moving someone's finger would cause his arm to follow it.
By normal posing techniques, you would have to start from the root bone,
and set bones sequentially till you reach the tip bone: When each parent bone is moved,
its child bone would inherit its location and rotation.
Thus making tiny precise changes in poses becomes harder farther down the chain,
as you may have to adjust all the parent bones first.

This effort is effectively avoided by use of IK.


Automatic IK
============

Automatic IK is a tool for quick posing, it can be enabled in the tool shelf in the 3D view,
when in pose mode. When the Auto IK option is enabled, translating a bone will activate
inverse kinematic and rotate bones higher up to follow the selected bone. By default,
the length of the IK chain is as long as there are parent bones,
and this length can be modified with :kbd:`Shift` :kbd:`PageUp`,
:kbd:`Shift` :kbd:`PageDown`, or :kbd:`Shift` :kbd:`WheelUp`,
:kbd:`Shift` :kbd:`WheelDown`.

This is a more limited feature than using an IK constraint, which can be configured,
but it can be useful for quick posing.


IK Contraints
=============

IK is mostly done with bone constraints.
They work by the same method but offer more choices and settings.
Please refer to these pages for detail about the settings for the contraints:


- :doc:`IK Solver </rigging/constraints/tracking/ik_solver>`
- :doc:`Spline IK </rigging/constraints/tracking/spline_ik>`


Armature IK Panel
=================

This panel is used to select the IK Solver type for the armature. *Standard* or *iTaSC*.


.. figure:: /images/IK_Armature_IK_Panel.jpg

   Properties > Armature > Inverse Kinematics Panel.


Most the time people will use the *Standard* IK solver.
There is some documentation for the *iTaSC* "instantaneous Task Specification using
Constraints" IK solver here.

`Robot IK Solver <http://wiki.blender.org/index.php/Dev:Source/GameEngine/RobotIKSolver>`__


Bone IK Panel
=============

This panel is used to control how the *Pose Bones* work in the IK chain.


.. figure:: /images/IK_Bone_IK_Panel.jpg

   Properties > Bone > Inverse Kinematics Panel.


Lock
   Disallow movement around the axis.

Stiffness
   Stiffness around the axis. Influence disabled if using *Lock*.

Limit
   Limit movement around the axis.

Stretch
   Stretch influence to IK target. 0.000 is the same as disabled.


Arm Rig Example
===============

This arm uses two bones to overcome the twist problem for the forearm.
IK locking is used to stop the forearm from bending,
but the forearm can still be twisted manually by pressing :kbd:`R-Y-Y` in *Pose Mode*,
or by using other constraints.


.. figure:: /images/IK_Arm_Example.jpg

   IK Arm Example.


`IK Arm Example. <http://wiki.blender.org/index.php/File:IK_Arm_Example.blend>`__

Note that, if a *Pole Target* is used, IK locking will not work on the root boot.

Commit message:

More Accurate Explanation Of Auto IK
D1547 by @ldo


git-svn-id: https://svn.blender.org/svnroot/bf-manual/trunk/blender_docs@759 c4de1f47-6596-e411-a384-0024e86c2797

manual/rigging/posing/inverse_kinematics.rst, after:


******************
Inverse Kinematics
******************

IK simplifies the animation process,
and makes it possible to make more advanced animations with lesser effort.

IK allows you to position the last bone in a bone chain and the other bones are positioned
automatically. This is like how moving someone's finger would cause his arm to follow it.
By normal posing techniques, you would have to start from the root bone,
and set bones sequentially till you reach the tip bone: When each parent bone is moved,
its child bone would inherit its location and rotation.
Thus making tiny precise changes in poses becomes harder farther down the chain,
as you may have to adjust all the parent bones first.

This effort is effectively avoided by use of IK.


Automatic IK
============

Automatic IK is a tool for quick posing, it can be enabled in the tool shelf in the 3D view,
when in pose mode. When the Auto IK option is enabled, translating a bone will activate
inverse kinematics and rotate the parent bone, and the parent’s parent, and so on, to
follow the selected bone. The IK chain can only extend from a child to a parent bone
if the child is *connected* to it.

The length of the chain is increased
(if there is a connected parent available to add to it)
with :kbd:`Ctrl-PageUp` or :kbd:`Ctrl-WheelDown`,
and decreased with :kbd:`Ctrl-PageDown` or :kbd:`Ctrl-WheelUp`.
However, the initial chain length is 0, which effectively
means follow the connections to parent bones as far as possible, with no length limit.
So pressing :kbd:`Ctrl-PageUp` the first time sets the chain length to 1 (move only the selected bone),
and pressing :kbd:`Ctrl-PageDown` at this point sets it back to 0 (unlimited) again.
Thus, you have to press :kbd:`Ctrl-PageUp` *more than once from the initial state*
to set a finite chain length greater than 1.

This is a more limited feature than using an IK constraint, which can be configured,
but it can be useful for quick posing.


IK Contraints
=============

IK is mostly done with bone constraints.
They work by the same method but offer more choices and settings.
Please refer to these pages for detail about the settings for the contraints:


- :doc:`IK Solver </rigging/constraints/tracking/ik_solver>`
- :doc:`Spline IK </rigging/constraints/tracking/spline_ik>`


Armature IK Panel
=================

This panel is used to select the IK Solver type for the armature. *Standard* or *iTaSC*.


.. figure:: /images/IK_Armature_IK_Panel.jpg

   Properties > Armature > Inverse Kinematics Panel.


Most the time people will use the *Standard* IK solver.
There is some documentation for the *iTaSC* "instantaneous Task Specification using
Constraints" IK solver here.

`Robot IK Solver <http://wiki.blender.org/index.php/Dev:Source/GameEngine/RobotIKSolver>`__


Bone IK Panel
=============

This panel is used to control how the *Pose Bones* work in the IK chain.


.. figure:: /images/IK_Bone_IK_Panel.jpg

   Properties > Bone > Inverse Kinematics Panel.


Lock
   Disallow movement around the axis.

Stiffness
   Stiffness around the axis. Influence disabled if using *Lock*.

Limit
   Limit movement around the axis.

Stretch
   Stretch influence to IK target. 0.000 is the same as disabled.


Arm Rig Example
===============

This arm uses two bones to overcome the twist problem for the forearm.
IK locking is used to stop the forearm from bending,
but the forearm can still be twisted manually by pressing :kbd:`R-Y-Y` in *Pose Mode*,
or by using other constraints.


.. figure:: /images/IK_Arm_Example.jpg

   IK Arm Example.


`IK Arm Example. <http://wiki.blender.org/index.php/File:IK_Arm_Example.blend>`__

Note that, if a *Pole Target* is used, IK locking will not work on the root boot.
