manual/render/blender_render/textures/types/nodes/input.rst, before:


..    TODO/Review: {{review|text= elaborate, exampls?}} .


***********
Input Nodes
***********

Input nodes provide input data for other nodes.


Time

----


.. figure:: /images/textureNodes-time.jpg
   :width: 200px

   Time node


The time node uses a frame range to output a value between 0 and 1.
By default the node output a linear transition from 0 to 1 from frame 1 to 250.
The shape of the curve can be manipulated to vary the output over time in different ways.


:kbd:`Plus`:Zoom in.
:kbd:`Minus`:Zoom out
*Tools*:

   Reset View
      Resets curve view
   Vector Handle
      Breaks tangent at curve handle, making a angle.
   Auto Handle
      Default smooth interpolation of curve segments
   Extend Horizontal
      Causes the curve to stay horizontal before the first point and after the last point.


.. figure:: /images/textureNodes-time-extendHorizontal.jpg
   :width: 150px

   Extend Horizontal


   Extend Extrapolated
      Causes the curve to extrapolate before the first point and after the last point,
      based on the shape of the curve.


.. figure:: /images/textureNodes-time-extendExtrapolate.jpg
   :width: 150px

   Extend Extrapolate


   Reset Curve
      Resets shape of curve to original linear shape.

Clipping Options:
   Use Clipping
      Forces curve points to stay between specified values.
   Min X/Y and Max X/Y
      Set the minimum and maximum bounds of the curve points.

:kbd:`X`:Delete curve points. The first and last points cannot be deleted.
*X and Y* The coordinates of the selected edit point.
*Sta*:Specify the start frame to use.
*End*:Specify the end frame to use.


Coordinates
===========

.. figure:: /images/textureNodes-coordinate2.jpg

   Coordinates node


The Coordinates node outputs the geometry local coordinates,
relative to its bounding box as RGB colors:

- Red channel corresponds to X value.
- Green channel corresponds to Y value.
- Green channel corresponds to Z value.


Texture Node
============

.. figure:: /images/textureNodes-texture.jpg

   Texture node


The texture node can be used to load a another node based or non-node based texture.

Color 1 and Color 2
   These can be used to remap a greyscale texture using two colors.


Image Node
==========

.. figure:: /images/textureNodes-image.jpg

   Image node


The image node can be used to load an external image.

Browse for image
   Select an image that already exists in the scene.
Datablock name
   Set the name of the image datablock.
:kbd:`F`
   Save this image datablock, even if it has no users.
Open image
   Select image to use from file browser.
Unlink datablock
   Remove the image datablock from the node.

Commit message:

Rename datablocks -> data-blocks
git-svn-id: https://svn.blender.org/svnroot/bf-manual/trunk/blender_docs@847 c4de1f47-6596-e411-a384-0024e86c2797

manual/render/blender_render/textures/types/nodes/input.rst, after:


..    TODO/Review: {{review|text= elaborate, exampls?}} .


***********
Input Nodes
***********

Input nodes provide input data for other nodes.


Time

----


.. figure:: /images/textureNodes-time.jpg
   :width: 200px

   Time node


The time node uses a frame range to output a value between 0 and 1.
By default the node output a linear transition from 0 to 1 from frame 1 to 250.
The shape of the curve can be manipulated to vary the output over time in different ways.


:kbd:`Plus`:Zoom in.
:kbd:`Minus`:Zoom out
*Tools*:

   Reset View
      Resets curve view
   Vector Handle
      Breaks tangent at curve handle, making a angle.
   Auto Handle
      Default smooth interpolation of curve segments
   Extend Horizontal
      Causes the curve to stay horizontal before the first point and after the last point.


.. figure:: /images/textureNodes-time-extendHorizontal.jpg
   :width: 150px

   Extend Horizontal


   Extend Extrapolated
      Causes the curve to extrapolate before the first point and after the last point,
      based on the shape of the curve.


.. figure:: /images/textureNodes-time-extendExtrapolate.jpg
   :width: 150px

   Extend Extrapolate


   Reset Curve
      Resets shape of curve to original linear shape.

Clipping Options:
   Use Clipping
      Forces curve points to stay between specified values.
   Min X/Y and Max X/Y
      Set the minimum and maximum bounds of the curve points.

:kbd:`X`:Delete curve points. The first and last points cannot be deleted.
*X and Y* The coordinates of the selected edit point.
*Sta*:Specify the start frame to use.
*End*:Specify the end frame to use.


Coordinates
===========

.. figure:: /images/textureNodes-coordinate2.jpg

   Coordinates node


The Coordinates node outputs the geometry local coordinates,
relative to its bounding box as RGB colors:

- Red channel corresponds to X value.
- Green channel corresponds to Y value.
- Green channel corresponds to Z value.


Texture Node
============

.. figure:: /images/textureNodes-texture.jpg

   Texture node


The texture node can be used to load a another node based or non-node based texture.

Color 1 and Color 2
   These can be used to remap a greyscale texture using two colors.


Image Node
==========

.. figure:: /images/textureNodes-image.jpg

   Image node


The image node can be used to load an external image.

Browse for image
   Select an image that already exists in the scene.
Data-block name
   Set the name of the image data-block.
:kbd:`F`
   Save this image data-block, even if it has no users.
Open image
   Select image to use from file browser.
Unlink data-block
   Remove the image data-block from the node.
