manual/modeling/meshes/primitives.rst, before:


..    TODO/Review: {{review|}} .


***************
Mesh Primitives
***************

.. admonition:: Reference
   :class: refbox

   | Mode:     *Object* mode
   | Menu:     :menuselection:`Add --> Mesh`
   | Hotkey:   :kbd:`Shift-A`


A common object type used in a 3D scene is a mesh.
Blender comes with a number of "primitive" mesh shapes that you can start modeling from.


.. figure:: /images/Mesh-primitives.jpg
   :width: 610px

   Blender's ten standard primitives


Options included in more than one primitive are:

Radius
   Sets the starting size for *Circle*, *Cylinder*, *Cone*, *UVSphere* and *IcoSphere*.
Depth
   Sets the starting length for *Cylinder* and *Cone*.


.. note:: Note about planar primitives

   You can make a planar mesh three-dimensional by moving one or more of the vertices out of its plane
   (applies to *Plane*, *Circle* and *Grid*).
   A simple circle is actually often used as a starting point to create even the most complex of meshes.


Plane
=====

A standard plane contains four vertices, four edges, and one face.
It is like a piece of paper lying on a table;
it is not a real three-dimensional object because it is flat and has no thickness.
Objects that can be created with planes include floors, tabletops, or mirrors.


Cube
====

A standard cube contains eight vertices, twelve edges, and six faces,
and is a real three-dimensional object. Objects that can be created out of cubes include dice,
boxes, or crates.


Circle
======

A standard circle is comprised of *n* vertices. The number of vertices and radius can be
specified in the context panel in the *Tool Shelf* which appears when the circle is
created.

Vertices
   The number of vertices that define the circle.
   The more vertices the circle contains, the smoother its contour will be;
   see (*"Circles" obtained with various settings*).
   In contrast, a circle with only 3 vertices is actually a triangle -
   the circle is actually the standard way of adding polygons such as triangles, pentagons, et cetera.
Radius
   Sets the radius of the circle.
Fill Type
   Set how the circle will be filled

   Triangle Fan
      Fill with triangular faces which share a vertex in the middle.
   Ngon
      fill with a single ngon
   Nothing
      Do not fill. Creates only the outer ring of vertices


UV Sphere
=========

A standard UV sphere is made out of *n* segments and *m* rings. The level of detail and
radius can be specified in the context panel in the *Tool Shelf* which appears when
the UV sphere is created.
Increasing the number of segments and rings makes the surface of the UV sphere smoother.

Segments
   Number of vertical segments. Like Earth's meridians, going pole to pole and
Rings
   Number of horizontal segments. These are like Earth's parallels.


.. note::

   If you specify a six segment, six ring UVsphere you'll get something which, in top view,
   is a hexagon (six segments), with five rings plus two points at the poles.
   Thus, one ring fewer than expected, or one more, if you count the poles as rings of radius 0.


Icosphere
=========

An icosphere is a polyhedra sphere made up of triangles. The number of subdivisions and radius
can be specified in the context panel in the *Tool Shelf* after the Icosphere is
created. Icospheres are normally used to achieve a more isotropical and economical layout of
vertices than a UV sphere.

Subdivisions
   How many recursions are used to define the sphere.
   Increasing the number of subdivisions makes the surface of the Icosphere smoother.
   At level 1 the Icosphere is an icosahedron, a solid with 20 equilateral triangular faces.
   Any increasing level of subdivision splits each triangular face into four triangles,
   resulting in a more spherical appearance.

Size
   The radius of the sphere.


.. note::

   It is possible to add an icosphere subdivided 500 times.
   Adding such a dense mesh is a sure way to cause a program crash.
   An icosphere subdivided 10 times would have 5,242,880 triangles, so be very careful about this!


Cylinder
========

A standard cylinder is made out of *n* vertices. The number of vertices in the circular
cross-section can be specified in the context panel in the *Tool Shelf* that appears
when the object is created; the higher the number of vertices,
the smoother the circular cross-section becomes.
Objects that can be created out of cylinders include handles or rods.

Vertices
   Then number of vertical edge loops used to define the cylinder.
Radius
   Sets the radius of the cylinder.
Depth
   Sets the height of the cylinder.

Cap Fill Type
   Similar to circle (see above). When set to none, the created object will be a tube.
   Objects that can be created out of tubes include pipes or drinking glasses
   (the basic difference between a cylinder and a tube is that the former has closed ends).


Cone
====

A standard cone is made out of *n* vertices. The number of vertices in the circular base,
dimensions and option to close the base of the cone can be specified in the context panel in
the *Tool Shelf* that appears when the object is created;
the higher the number of vertices, the smoother the circular base becomes.
Objects that can be created out of cones include spikes or pointed hats.

Vertices
   The number of vertical edge loops used to define the cone.
Radius 1
   Sets the radius of the base of the cone.
Radius 2
   Sets the radius of the tip of the cone. A value of 0 will produce a standard cone shape.
Depth
   Sets the height of the cylinder.

Base Fill Type
   Similar to circle (see above).


Torus
=====

A doughnut-shaped primitive created by rotating a circle around an axis.
The overall dimensions are defined by the *Major* and *Minor Radius*.
The number of vertices (in segments) can be different for the circles and is specified in the
context panel in the *Tool Shelf* with both radii
(*Major Segments* and *Minor Segments*).

Major Radius
   Radius from the origin to the center of the cross sections
Minor Radius
   Radius of the torus's cross section
Major Segments
   Number of segments for the main ring of the torus.
   If you think of a torus as a "spin" operation around an axis, this is how many steps in the spin.
Minor segments
   Number of segments for the minor ring of the torus.
   This is the number of vertices of each circular segment.

Use Int+Ext Controls
   Change the way the torus is defined:

Exterior Radius
   When *Use Int+Ext Controls* is active, if viewed along the major axis,
   this is the radius from the center to the outer edge.
Interior Radius
   When *Use Int+Ext Controls* is active, if viewed along the major axis,
   this is the radius of the hole in the center.


Grid
====

A standard grid is made out of *n* by *m* vertices. The resolution of the x-axis and
y-axis can be specified in the context panel in the *Tool Shelf* which appears when
the object is created; the higher the resolution, the more vertices are created.
Example objects that can be created out of grids include landscapes
(with the proportional editing tool or *Displace* modifier)
and other organic surfaces. You can also obtain a grid when you create a plane and then use a
subdivide modifier in *Edit mode*. However,
there is a *Landscape* add-on available in the *User Preferences*.

X Subdivisions
   The number of spans in the x direction. Minimum of 3, creating two face loops.
Y Subdivisions
   The number of spans in the y direction.
Size
   The length of the sides of the grid.


Monkey
======

This is a gift from old NaN to the community and is seen as a programmer's joke or "Easter
Egg". It creates a monkey's head once you press the *Monkey* button.
The Monkey's name is "Suzanne" and is Blender's mascot.
Suzanne is very useful as a standard test mesh,
much like the `Utah Tea Pot <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Utah_teapot>`__
or the `Stanford Bunny <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stanford_Bunny>`__.


Add-ons
=======

.. figure:: /images/Mesh-Structures-script-primitives.jpg
   :width: 600px

   A few of the mesh primitives available as add-ons.


In addition to the basic geometric primitives, Blender has a constantly increasing number of
script generated meshes to offer as pre-installed add-ons. These become available when
enabled in the *User Preferences* ' *Add-ons* section
(filter by *Add Mesh*). Only a few are mentioned here:

`Landscape <http://wiki.blender.org/index.php/Extensions:2.6/Py/Scripts/Add Mesh/ANT Landscape>`__
   Adds a landscape primitive. Many parameters and filters appear in the *Tool Shelf*.

`Pipe Joints <http://wiki.blender.org/index.php/Extensions:2.6/Py/Scripts/Add Mesh/Add Pipe Joints>`__
   Adds one of five different pipe joint primitives.
   Radius, angle, and other parameters can be changed in the *Tool Shelf*.

`Gears <http://wiki.blender.org/index.php/Extensions:2.6/Py/Scripts/Add Mesh/Add Gear>`__
   Adds a gear or a `worm <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Worm_drive>`__
   with many parameters to control the shape in the *Tool Shelf*.

Commit message:

Other Shapes Can Also Be Produced With Low Numbers Of Vertices - by @ldo
Differential Revision: https://developer.blender.org/D1554

git-svn-id: https://svn.blender.org/svnroot/bf-manual/trunk/blender_docs@780 c4de1f47-6596-e411-a384-0024e86c2797

manual/modeling/meshes/primitives.rst, after:


..    TODO/Review: {{review|}} .


***************
Mesh Primitives
***************

.. admonition:: Reference
   :class: refbox

   | Mode:     *Object* mode
   | Menu:     :menuselection:`Add --> Mesh`
   | Hotkey:   :kbd:`Shift-A`


A common object type used in a 3D scene is a mesh.
Blender comes with a number of "primitive" mesh shapes that you can start modeling from.


.. figure:: /images/Mesh-primitives.jpg
   :width: 610px

   Blender's ten standard primitives


Options included in more than one primitive are:

Radius
   Sets the starting size for *Circle*, *Cylinder*, *Cone*, *UVSphere* and *IcoSphere*.
Depth
   Sets the starting length for *Cylinder* and *Cone*.


.. note:: Note about planar primitives

   You can make a planar mesh three-dimensional by moving one or more of the vertices out of its plane
   (applies to *Plane*, *Circle* and *Grid*).
   A simple circle is actually often used as a starting point to create even the most complex of meshes.


Plane
=====

A standard plane contains four vertices, four edges, and one face.
It is like a piece of paper lying on a table;
it is not a real three-dimensional object because it is flat and has no thickness.
Objects that can be created with planes include floors, tabletops, or mirrors.


Cube
====

A standard cube contains eight vertices, twelve edges, and six faces,
and is a real three-dimensional object. Objects that can be created out of cubes include dice,
boxes, or crates.


Circle
======

A standard circle is comprised of *n* vertices. The number of vertices and radius can be
specified in the context panel in the *Tool Shelf* which appears when the circle is
created.

Vertices
   The number of vertices that define the circle.
   The more vertices the circle contains, the smoother its contour will be;
   see (*"Circles" obtained with various settings*).
   In contrast, a circle with only 3 vertices is actually a triangle -
   the circle is actually the standard way of adding polygons such as triangles, pentagons, et cetera.
Radius
   Sets the radius of the circle.
Fill Type
   Set how the circle will be filled

   Triangle Fan
      Fill with triangular faces which share a vertex in the middle.
   Ngon
      fill with a single ngon
   Nothing
      Do not fill. Creates only the outer ring of vertices


UV Sphere
=========

A standard UV sphere is made out of *n* segments and *m* rings. The level of detail and
radius can be specified in the context panel in the *Tool Shelf* which appears when
the UV sphere is created.
Increasing the number of segments and rings makes the surface of the UV sphere smoother.

Segments
   Number of vertical segments. Like Earth's meridians, going pole to pole and
Rings
   Number of horizontal segments. These are like Earth's parallels.


.. note::

   If you specify a six segment, six ring UVsphere you'll get something which, in top view,
   is a hexagon (six segments), with five rings plus two points at the poles.
   Thus, one ring fewer than expected, or one more, if you count the poles as rings of radius 0.


Icosphere
=========

An icosphere is a polyhedra sphere made up of triangles. The number of subdivisions and radius
can be specified in the context panel in the *Tool Shelf* after the Icosphere is
created. Icospheres are normally used to achieve a more isotropical and economical layout of
vertices than a UV sphere.

Subdivisions
   How many recursions are used to define the sphere.
   Increasing the number of subdivisions makes the surface of the Icosphere smoother.
   At level 1 the Icosphere is an icosahedron, a solid with 20 equilateral triangular faces.
   Any increasing level of subdivision splits each triangular face into four triangles,
   resulting in a more spherical appearance.

Size
   The radius of the sphere.


.. note::

   It is possible to add an icosphere subdivided 500 times.
   Adding such a dense mesh is a sure way to cause a program crash.
   An icosphere subdivided 10 times would have 5,242,880 triangles, so be very careful about this!


Cylinder
========

A standard cylinder is made out of *n* vertices. The number of vertices in the circular
cross-section can be specified in the context panel in the *Tool Shelf* that appears
when the object is created; the higher the number of vertices,
the smoother the circular cross-section becomes.
Objects that can be created out of cylinders include handles or rods.

Vertices
   Then number of vertical edge loops used to define the cylinder.
   Similarly to the circle, specifying a small number of vertices produces an object with a polygonal cross section
   (a prism).
Radius
   Sets the radius of the cylinder.
Depth
   Sets the height of the cylinder.

Cap Fill Type
   Similar to circle (see above). When set to none, the created object will be a tube.
   Objects that can be created out of tubes include pipes or drinking glasses
   (the basic difference between a cylinder and a tube is that the former has closed ends).


Cone
====

A standard cone is made out of *n* vertices. The number of vertices in the circular base,
dimensions and option to close the base of the cone can be specified in the context panel in
the *Tool Shelf* that appears when the object is created;
the higher the number of vertices, the smoother the circular base becomes.
Objects that can be created out of cones include spikes or pointed hats.

Vertices
   The number of vertical edge loops used to define the cone.
   Similarly to the circle and cylinder,
   specifying a small number of vertices produces an object with a polygonal base section (a pyramid).
Radius 1
   Sets the radius of the base of the cone.
Radius 2
   Sets the radius of the tip of the cone. A value of 0 will produce a standard cone shape.
Depth
   Sets the height of the cylinder.

Base Fill Type
   Similar to circle (see above).


Torus
=====

A doughnut-shaped primitive created by rotating a circle around an axis.
The overall dimensions are defined by the *Major* and *Minor Radius*.
The number of vertices (in segments) can be different for the circles and is specified in the
context panel in the *Tool Shelf* with both radii
(*Major Segments* and *Minor Segments*).

Major Radius
   Radius from the origin to the center of the cross sections
Minor Radius
   Radius of the torus's cross section
Major Segments
   Number of segments for the main ring of the torus.
   If you think of a torus as a "spin" operation around an axis, this is how many steps in the spin.
Minor segments
   Number of segments for the minor ring of the torus.
   This is the number of vertices of each circular segment.

Use Int+Ext Controls
   Change the way the torus is defined:

Exterior Radius
   When *Use Int+Ext Controls* is active, if viewed along the major axis,
   this is the radius from the center to the outer edge.
Interior Radius
   When *Use Int+Ext Controls* is active, if viewed along the major axis,
   this is the radius of the hole in the center.


Grid
====

A standard grid is made out of *n* by *m* vertices. The resolution of the x-axis and
y-axis can be specified in the context panel in the *Tool Shelf* which appears when
the object is created; the higher the resolution, the more vertices are created.
Example objects that can be created out of grids include landscapes
(with the proportional editing tool or *Displace* modifier)
and other organic surfaces. You can also obtain a grid when you create a plane and then use a
subdivide modifier in *Edit mode*. However,
there is a *Landscape* add-on available in the *User Preferences*.

X Subdivisions
   The number of spans in the x direction. Minimum of 3, creating two face loops.
Y Subdivisions
   The number of spans in the y direction.
Size
   The length of the sides of the grid.


Monkey
======

This is a gift from old NaN to the community and is seen as a programmer's joke or "Easter
Egg". It creates a monkey's head once you press the *Monkey* button.
The Monkey's name is "Suzanne" and is Blender's mascot.
Suzanne is very useful as a standard test mesh,
much like the `Utah Tea Pot <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Utah_teapot>`__
or the `Stanford Bunny <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stanford_Bunny>`__.


Add-ons
=======

.. figure:: /images/Mesh-Structures-script-primitives.jpg
   :width: 600px

   A few of the mesh primitives available as add-ons.


In addition to the basic geometric primitives, Blender has a constantly increasing number of
script generated meshes to offer as pre-installed add-ons. These become available when
enabled in the *User Preferences* ' *Add-ons* section
(filter by *Add Mesh*). Only a few are mentioned here:

`Landscape <http://wiki.blender.org/index.php/Extensions:2.6/Py/Scripts/Add Mesh/ANT Landscape>`__
   Adds a landscape primitive. Many parameters and filters appear in the *Tool Shelf*.

`Pipe Joints <http://wiki.blender.org/index.php/Extensions:2.6/Py/Scripts/Add Mesh/Add Pipe Joints>`__
   Adds one of five different pipe joint primitives.
   Radius, angle, and other parameters can be changed in the *Tool Shelf*.

`Gears <http://wiki.blender.org/index.php/Extensions:2.6/Py/Scripts/Add Mesh/Add Gear>`__
   Adds a gear or a `worm <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Worm_drive>`__
   with many parameters to control the shape in the *Tool Shelf*.
