manual/physics/fluid/obstacle.rst, before:

..    TODO/Review: {{review}} .

**************
Fluid Obstacle
**************

This object will be used as an obstacle in the simulation. As with a fluid object,
obstacle objects currently should not intersect. As for fluid objects,
the actual mesh geometry is used for obstacles. For objects with a volume,
make sure that the normals of the obstacle are calculated correctly, and radiating properly
(use the *Flip Normal* button, in *Edit mode*,
*Mesh Tools* panel, *Editing* context),
particularly when using a spinned container. Applying the Modifier *SubSurf* before
baking the simulation could also be a good idea if the mesh is not animated.


FIXME(Template Unsupported: Doc:2.6/Manual/Physics/Fluid/volume_init;
{{Doc:2.6/Manual/Physics/Fluid/volume_init}}
)

Boundary type
   Determines the stickiness of the obstacle surface, called "Surface Adhesion".
   Surface Adhesion depends in real-world on the fluid and the graininess or
   friction/adhesion/absorption qualities of the surface.

   Noslip
      causes the fluid to stick to the obstacle (zero velocity).
   Free
      (-slip) allows movement along the obstacle (only zero normal velocity).
   Part
      (-slip) mixes both types, with 0 being mostly noslip, and 1 being identical to freeslip.

   Note that if the mesh is moving, it will be treated as noslip automatically.


.. figure:: /images/bndtcomp.jpg
   :width: 610px

   Example of the different boundary types for a drop falling onto the slanted wall.
   From left to right: no-slip, part-slip 0.3, part-slip 0.7 and free-slip.


FIXME(Template Unsupported: Doc:2.6/Manual/Physics/Fluid/animated_mesh_export;
{{Doc:2.6/Manual/Physics/Fluid/animated_mesh_export}}
)

PartSlip Amount
   Amount of mixing between no- and free-slip, described above.


.. note:: Moving obstacles support

   Blender supports now moving obstacles.

   In the past, a moving obstacle was automatically treated as no slip (sticky),
   so if you wanted to splash off of a moving object,
   you had to put a transparent plane in the spot where the fluid will hit the moving object,
   exactly aligned and shaped as the object, to fake the splash. This is not needed anymore.


Impact Factor
   Amount of fluid volume correction for gain/loss from impacting with moving objects.
   If this object is not moving, this setting has no effect.
   However, it if is and the fluid collides with it, a negative value takes volume away from the Domain,
   and a positive number adds to it. Ranges from -2.0 to 10.0.

Commit message:

Fix T42914 fix remaining FixMe's
Took a little bit of work... Had to Google translate some text from the old wiki. Alot of the text needs to be revised and made less verbose. The BGE Physics needs alot of help however this is a big project for another day and we will want to see how it goes in the Blender 2.8 project. Alot of the text here is repeated in the different pages and needs to be re formated. I added a link as a code comment at the top of 	blender_docs\manual\game_engine\physics\object\dynamic.rst for future references. The same is true for Fluid docs. I also removed some images that were delted in recent commits.

git-svn-id: https://svn.blender.org/svnroot/bf-manual/trunk/blender_docs@924 c4de1f47-6596-e411-a384-0024e86c2797

manual/physics/fluid/obstacle.rst, after:

..    TODO/Review: {{review}} .

**************
Fluid Obstacle
**************

This object will be used as an obstacle in the simulation. As with a fluid object,
obstacle objects currently should not intersect. As for fluid objects,
the actual mesh geometry is used for obstacles. For objects with a volume,
make sure that the normals of the obstacle are calculated correctly, and radiating properly
(use the *Flip Normal* button, in *Edit mode*,
*Mesh Tools* panel, *Editing* context),
particularly when using a spinned container. Applying the Modifier *SubSurf* before
baking the simulation could also be a good idea if the mesh is not animated.

Volume initialization type

    Volume
       The inside of the object is initialized as fluid all . This works only if the closed mesh .
    Shell
       It is initialized as a thin fluid layer of the surface of the mesh . This can also be used in the mesh open.
    Both
       It is a state , such as the sum of the Volume and Shell. This also must be a closed mesh.

.. figure:: /images/physics_fluid_initialization.jpg

   Example of different types of initiation of volume

Boundary type
   Determines the stickiness of the obstacle surface, called "Surface Adhesion".
   Surface Adhesion depends in real-world on the fluid and the graininess or
   friction/adhesion/absorption qualities of the surface.

   Noslip
      causes the fluid to stick to the obstacle (zero velocity).
   Free
      (-slip) allows movement along the obstacle (only zero normal velocity).
   Part
      (-slip) mixes both types, with 0 being mostly noslip, and 1 being identical to freeslip.

   Note that if the mesh is moving, it will be treated as noslip automatically.


.. figure:: /images/bndtcomp.jpg
   :width: 610px

   Example of the different boundary types for a drop falling onto the slanted wall.
   From left to right: no-slip, part-slip 0.3, part-slip 0.7 and free-slip.

Animated Mesh/Export
   Click this button if the network is animated (eg . Deformed by an armature ,
   shape keys (shape keys) or lattice).
   It can become very slow and is not necessary if the network is animated IPO position and rotation
   (ie only object transformations).

PartSlip Amount
   Amount of mixing between no- and free-slip, described above.


.. note:: Moving obstacles support

   Blender supports now moving obstacles.

   In the past, a moving obstacle was automatically treated as no slip (sticky),
   so if you wanted to splash off of a moving object,
   you had to put a transparent plane in the spot where the fluid will hit the moving object,
   exactly aligned and shaped as the object, to fake the splash. This is not needed anymore.


Impact Factor
   Amount of fluid volume correction for gain/loss from impacting with moving objects.
   If this object is not moving, this setting has no effect.
   However, it if is and the fluid collides with it, a negative value takes volume away from the Domain,
   and a positive number adds to it. Ranges from -2.0 to 10.0.
