manual/interface/panels.rst, before:


******
Panels
******

Panels are collapsible sections within regions to help organise the interface.
They are heavily used in the *Properties Editor* but also
appear elsewhere (For example: in the *Tool Shelf* or the *Properties Shelf*, available in some editors).

The image below shows panels in different regions in their expanded and
collapsed state.

.. figure:: /images/getting_started_basics_interface_panels_01.png
   :width: 100%

   Expanded (1) and collapsed (2) Panels in the Properties Editor (right area)
   and in the additional Regions of the 3D View Editor (left area)

- A click with the :kbd:`LMB` on the title area of a panel expands or collapses it.
- A :kbd:`LMB` drag motion over the title area will expand or collapse many at once.
- A :kbd:`Ctrl-LMB` click on the title area of a specific panel will collapse
  all other panels and make this the only expanded one.

Some panels only show in certain contexts.
So for instance the *Tool Shelf* will show different panels depending on the objects mode.

There are some options available to customize panels to your preference:

- You can change the position of a panel within its region by clicking and
  dragging it with the :kbd:`LMB` on the little widget in the upper right corner.
- The zoom factor of a whole region with panels can be changed by
  :kbd:`Ctrl-MMB` clicking and moving the mouse anywhere within that region.
- The alignment of the panels in the *Properties Editor* can be changed
  between vertical and horizontal. To do this click with :kbd:`RMB` somewhere
  within the main region of the *Properties Editor* and choose either
  *Horizontal* or *Vertical* from the appearing menu. Keep in mind though that
  the panels are optimized for vertical alignment.

Commit message:

Move zoom info into panels (partly was in prefs)
git-svn-id: https://svn.blender.org/svnroot/bf-manual/trunk/blender_docs@650 c4de1f47-6596-e411-a384-0024e86c2797

manual/interface/panels.rst, after:


******
Panels
******

Panels are collapsible sections within regions to help organise the interface.
They are heavily used in the *Properties Editor* but also
appear elsewhere (For example: in the *Tool Shelf* or the *Properties Shelf*, available in some editors).

The image below shows panels in different regions in their expanded and
collapsed state.

.. figure:: /images/getting_started_basics_interface_panels_01.png
   :width: 100%

   Expanded (1) and collapsed (2) Panels in the Properties Editor (right area)
   and in the additional Regions of the 3D View Editor (left area)

- A click with the :kbd:`LMB` on the title area of a panel expands or collapses it.
- A :kbd:`LMB` drag motion over the title area will expand or collapse many at once.
- A :kbd:`Ctrl-LMB` click on the title area of a specific panel will collapse
  all other panels and make this the only expanded one.

Some panels only show in certain contexts.
So for instance the *Tool Shelf* will show different panels depending on the objects mode.

There are some options available to customize panels to your preference:

- You can change the position of a panel within its region by clicking and
  dragging it with the :kbd:`LMB` on the little widget in the upper right corner.
- The zoom factor of a whole region with panels can be changed by
  :kbd:`Ctrl-MMB` clicking and moving the mouse anywhere within that region
  or use the :kbd:`NumpadPlus` and :kbd:`NumpadMinus` to zoom in and out the contents.
  Pressing :kbd:`Home` (Show All) will reset the zooming at the screen/panel focused by the mouse pointer.
- The alignment of the panels in the *Properties Editor* can be changed
  between vertical and horizontal. To do this click with :kbd:`RMB` somewhere
  within the main region of the *Properties Editor* and choose either
  *Horizontal* or *Vertical* from the appearing menu. Keep in mind though that
  the panels are optimized for vertical alignment.
