manual/interface/screens.rst, before:


*******
Screens
*******

.. figure:: /images/Scene-SR_Layout_Dropdown25.jpg
   :align: right

   Layout dropdown


Blender's flexibility with windows lets you create customized working environments for
different tasks such as modeling, animating, and scripting.
It is often useful to quickly switch between different environments within the same file.

To do each of these major creative steps, Blender has a set of pre-defined *screens*,
that show you the types of windows you need to get the job done quickly and efficiently.
*Screens* are essentially pre-defined window layouts.
If you are having trouble finding a particular screen,
you can use the search function at the bottom of the list (pictured right).

**Default Screens available**

3D View Full
   A full screen 3D view, used to preview your scene.
Animation
   Making actors and other objects move about, change shape or color, etc.
Compositing
   Combining different parts of a scene (e.g. background, actors, special effects) and
   filter them (e.g. color correction).
Default
   The default layout used by Blender for new files. Useful for modeling new objects.
Game Logic
   Planning and programming of games within Blender.
Motion Tracking
   Used for motion tracking with the movie clip editor.
Scripting
   Documenting your work and/or writing custom scripts to automate Blender.
UV Editing
   Flattening a projection of an object mesh in 2D to control how a texture maps to the surface.
Video Editing
   Cutting and editing of animation sequences.

Screens can be selected in the *Info Window* header that is at the top of the
layout for preset screens. This is often confused for a menu bar by those new to Blender;
however it is simply a window showing only its *header*.

To cycle between screens use :kbd:`Ctrl-Right` and :kbd:`Ctrl-Left`.


.. figure:: /images/ConceptScreens25.jpg
   :align: center

   Screen and Scene selectors


By default, each screen layout 'remembers' the last :doc:`scene </interface/scenes>`
it was used on. Selecting a different layout will switch to the layout **and** jump to that scene.

All changes to windows, as described in :doc:`Editor types </editors/index>`, are saved within one screen.
If you change your windows in one screen, other screens won't be affected.


Configuring your Screens
========================

Adding a new Screen Type
------------------------

.. |addview-button| image:: /images/Interface-Screens-AddView-Button25.jpg

Click on the "Add" button(|addview-button|) and a new frame layout will be
created based on your current layout.


Deleting a Screen
-----------------

.. |deleteview-button| image:: /images/Interface-Screens-DeleteView-Button25.jpg

You can delete a screen by using the *Delete datablock* button
(|deleteview-button|). See *Screen and Scene selectors* above.


Rearranging a Screen
--------------------

Use the :doc:`window controls </interface/window_system/arranging_frames>`
to move frame borders, split and consolidate windows.
When you have a layout that you like, press :kbd:`Ctrl-U` to update your User defaults.
Be aware that all of the current scenes become part of those defaults,
so consider customizing your layouts with only a single, simple scene.

The properties window has a special option: pressing :kbd:`RMB` on its background will
allow you to arrange its panels horizontally or vertically. Of the two,
vertically-arranged panels have greater support.


Overriding Defaults
-------------------

When you save a .blend file, the screen layouts are also saved in it. When you open a file,
enabling the *Load UI* checkbox in the file browser indicates that Blender should
use the file's screen layouts (overriding your defaults in the process).
Leaving the *Load UI* checkbox disabled tells Blender to use the current layout.


Additional Layouts
------------------

As you become more experienced with Blender, consider adding some other screen layouts to suit
your workflow as this will help increase your productivity. Some examples could include:

   1-Model
      Four 3D windows (top, front, side and perspective), Properties window for Editing
   2-Lighting
      3D windows for moving lights, UV/Image Window for displaying Render Result,
      Properties window for rendering and lamp properties and controls
   3-Material
      Properties window for Material settings, 3D window for selecting objects, Outliner,
      Library script (if used), Node Editor
      (if using :doc:`Node based materials </render/blender_render/materials/nodes>`)
   4-UV Layout
      UV/Image Editor Window, 3D Window for seaming and unwrapping mesh
   5-Painting
      UV/Image Editor for texture painting image,
      3D window for painting directly on object in UV Face Select mode,
      three mini-3D windows down the side that have background
      reference pictures set to full strength, Properties window
   6-Animation
      Graph Editor, 3D Window for posing armature, NLA Window
   7-Node
      Big Node Editor window for noodles, UV/Image window linked to Render Result
   8-Sequence
      Graph Editor, video sequence editor in Image Preview mode,
      video sequence editor in timeline mode, a Timeline window, and the good old Properties window.
   9-Notes/Scripting
      Outliner, Text Editor (Scripts) window


.. note:: Reuse your Layouts

   If you create a new window layout and would like to use it for future .blend files,
   simply save it as the User default by pressing :kbd:`Ctrl-U`
   (don't forget: all screens and scenes themselves will be saved as default too).

Commit message:

Reference startup file docs instead of explaining inline
git-svn-id: https://svn.blender.org/svnroot/bf-manual/trunk/blender_docs@649 c4de1f47-6596-e411-a384-0024e86c2797

manual/interface/screens.rst, after:


*******
Screens
*******

.. figure:: /images/Scene-SR_Layout_Dropdown25.jpg
   :align: right

   Layout dropdown


Blender's flexibility with windows lets you create customized working environments for
different tasks such as modeling, animating, and scripting.
It is often useful to quickly switch between different environments within the same file.

To do each of these major creative steps, Blender has a set of pre-defined *screens*,
that show you the types of windows you need to get the job done quickly and efficiently.
*Screens* are essentially pre-defined window layouts.
If you are having trouble finding a particular screen,
you can use the search function at the bottom of the list (pictured right).

**Default Screens available**

3D View Full
   A full screen 3D view, used to preview your scene.
Animation
   Making actors and other objects move about, change shape or color, etc.
Compositing
   Combining different parts of a scene (e.g. background, actors, special effects) and
   filter them (e.g. color correction).
Default
   The default layout used by Blender for new files. Useful for modeling new objects.
Game Logic
   Planning and programming of games within Blender.
Motion Tracking
   Used for motion tracking with the movie clip editor.
Scripting
   Documenting your work and/or writing custom scripts to automate Blender.
UV Editing
   Flattening a projection of an object mesh in 2D to control how a texture maps to the surface.
Video Editing
   Cutting and editing of animation sequences.

Screens can be selected in the *Info Window* header that is at the top of the
layout for preset screens. This is often confused for a menu bar by those new to Blender;
however it is simply a window showing only its *header*.

To cycle between screens use :kbd:`Ctrl-Right` and :kbd:`Ctrl-Left`.


.. figure:: /images/ConceptScreens25.jpg
   :align: center

   Screen and Scene selectors


By default, each screen layout 'remembers' the last :doc:`scene </interface/scenes>`
it was used on. Selecting a different layout will switch to the layout **and** jump to that scene.

All changes to windows, as described in :doc:`Editor types </editors/index>`, are saved within one screen.
If you change your windows in one screen, other screens won't be affected.


Configuring your Screens
========================

Adding a new Screen Type
------------------------

.. |addview-button| image:: /images/Interface-Screens-AddView-Button25.jpg

Click on the "Add" button(|addview-button|) and a new frame layout will be
created based on your current layout.


Deleting a Screen
-----------------

.. |deleteview-button| image:: /images/Interface-Screens-DeleteView-Button25.jpg

You can delete a screen by using the *Delete datablock* button
(|deleteview-button|). See *Screen and Scene selectors* above.


Rearranging a Screen
--------------------

Use the :doc:`window controls </interface/window_system/arranging_frames>`
to move frame borders, split and consolidate windows.
When you have a layout that you like, press :kbd:`Ctrl-U` to update your User defaults.
Be aware that all of the current scenes become part of those defaults,
so consider customizing your layouts with only a single, simple scene.

The properties window has a special option: pressing :kbd:`RMB` on its background will
allow you to arrange its panels horizontally or vertically. Of the two,
vertically-arranged panels have greater support.


Overriding Defaults
-------------------

When you save a .blend file, the screen layouts are also saved in it. When you open a file,
enabling the *Load UI* checkbox in the file browser indicates that Blender should
use the file's screen layouts (overriding your defaults in the process).
Leaving the *Load UI* checkbox disabled tells Blender to use the current layout.


Additional Layouts
------------------

As you become more experienced with Blender, consider adding some other screen layouts to suit
your workflow as this will help increase your productivity. Some examples could include:

   1-Model
      Four 3D windows (top, front, side and perspective), Properties window for Editing
   2-Lighting
      3D windows for moving lights, UV/Image Window for displaying Render Result,
      Properties window for rendering and lamp properties and controls
   3-Material
      Properties window for Material settings, 3D window for selecting objects, Outliner,
      Library script (if used), Node Editor
      (if using :doc:`Node based materials </render/blender_render/materials/nodes>`)
   4-UV Layout
      UV/Image Editor Window, 3D Window for seaming and unwrapping mesh
   5-Painting
      UV/Image Editor for texture painting image,
      3D window for painting directly on object in UV Face Select mode,
      three mini-3D windows down the side that have background
      reference pictures set to full strength, Properties window
   6-Animation
      Graph Editor, 3D Window for posing armature, NLA Window
   7-Node
      Big Node Editor window for noodles, UV/Image window linked to Render Result
   8-Sequence
      Graph Editor, video sequence editor in Image Preview mode,
      video sequence editor in timeline mode, a Timeline window, and the good old Properties window.
   9-Notes/Scripting
      Outliner, Text Editor (Scripts) window


.. hint:: Reuse your Layouts

   If you create a new window layout and would like to use it for future ``.blend`` files,
   you can save it for later reuse, see :doc:`/preferences/startup_file`.
