manual/render/cycles/nodes/input.rst, before:


..    TODO/Review: {{review|text=z depth|im=examples}} .


***********
Input Nodes
***********

Camera Data
===========

View Vector
   A Camera space vector from the camera to the shading point.
View Z Depth
   TODO
View Distance
   Distance from the camera to the shading point.


Value
=====

Input a scalar value.

Value
   Value output.


RGB
===

Input an RGB color.

Color
   RGB color output.


Attribute
=========

Retrieve attribute attached to the object or mesh.
Currently UV maps and vertex color layers can be retrieved this way by their names,
with layers and attributes planned to be added. Also internal attributes like *P*
(position), *N* (normal), *Ng* (geometric normal) may be accessed this way,
although there are more convenient nodes for this.

Name
   Name of the attribute.
Color output
   RGB color interpolated from the attribute.
Vector output
   XYZ vector interpolated from the attribute.
Fac output
   Scalar value interpolated from the attribute.


Geometry
========

Geometric information about the current shading point.
All vector coordinates are in *World Space*. For volume shaders,
only the position and incoming vector are available.

Position
   Position of the shading point.
Normal
   Shading normal at the surface (includes smooth normals and bump mapping).
Tangent
   Tangent at the surface.
True Normal
   Geometry or flat normal of the surface.
Incoming
   Vector pointing towards the point the shading point is being viewed from.
Parametric
   Parametric coordinates of the shading point on the surface.
Backfacing
   1.0 if the face is being viewed from the back side, 0.0 for the front side.
Pointiness
   An approximation of the curvature of the mesh per-vertex.
   Lighter values indicate convex angles, darker values indicate concave angles.

Light Path
==========

Node to find out for which kind of incoming ray the shader is being executed;
particularly useful for non-physically based tricks.
More information about the meaning of each type is in the
:doc:`Light Paths </render/cycles/settings/light_paths>` documentation.

Is Camera Ray output
   1.0 if shading is executed for a camera ray, 0.0 otherwise.
Is Shadow Ray output
   1.0 if shading is executed for a shadow ray, 0.0 otherwise.
Is Diffuse Ray output
   1.0 if shading is executed for a diffuse ray, 0.0 otherwise.
Is Glossy Ray output
   1.0 if shading is executed for a glossy ray, 0.0 otherwise.
Is Singular Ray output
   1.0 if shading is executed for a singular ray, 0.0 otherwise.
Is Reflection Ray output
   1.0 if shading is executed for a reflection ray, 0.0 otherwise.
Is Transmission Ray output
   1.0 if shading is executed for a transmission ray, 0.0 otherwise.
Ray Length output
   Distance traveled by the light ray from the last bounce or camera.


Object Info
===========

Information about the object instance.
This can be useful to give some variation to a single material assigned to multiple instances,
either manually controlled through the object index, based on the object location,
or randomized for each instance. For example a Noise texture can give random colors or a Color
ramp can give a range of colors to be randomly picked from.

Location
   Location of the object in world space.
Object Index
   Object pass index, same as in the Object Index pass.transformed.
Material Index
   Material pass index, same as in the Material Index pass.
Random
   Random number unique to a single object instance.


Fresnel
=======

Dielectric fresnel,
computing how much light is refracted through and how much is reflected off a layer.
The resulting weight can be used for layering shaders with the *Mix Shader* node.
It is dependent on the angle between the surface normal and the viewing direction.

:term:`IOR` input
   Index of refraction of the material being entered.
Fresnel output
   Fresnel weight, indicating the probability with which light
   will reflect off the layer rather than passing through.


Layer Weight
============

Output weights typically used for layering shaders with the *Mix Shader* node.

Blend input
   Blend between the first and second shader.
Fresnel output
   Dielectric fresnel weight,
   useful for example for layering diffuse and glossy shaders to create a plastic material.
   This is like the Fresnel node,
   except that the input of this node is in the often more-convenient 0.0 to 1.0 range.
Facing output
   Weight that blends from the first to the second shader
   as the surface goes from facing the viewer to viewing it at a grazing angle.


Texture Coordinates
===================

Commonly used texture coordinates,
typically used as inputs for the *Vector* input for texture nodes.

Generated
   Automatically-generated texture coordinates from the vertex positions of the mesh without deformation,
   keeping them sticking to the surface under animation. Range from 0.0 to 1.
   0 over the bounding box of the undeformed mesh.
Normal
   Object space normal, for texturing objects with the texture staying fixed on the object as it transformed.
UV
   UV texture coordinates from the active render UV layer.
Object
   Position coordinate in object space.
Camera
   Position coordinate in camera space.
Window
   Location of shading point on the screen, ranging from 0.0 to 1.
   0 from the left to right side and bottom to top of the render.
Reflection
   Vector in the direction of a sharp reflection, typically used for environment maps.


Particle Info
=============

For objects instanced from a particle system,
this node give access to the data of the particle that spawned the instance.

Index
   Index number of the particle (from 0 to number of particles).
Age
   Age of the particle in frames.
Lifetime
   Total lifespan of the particle in frames.
Location
   Location of the particle.
Size
   Size of the particle.
Velocity
   Velocity of the particle.
Angular Velocity
   Angular velocity of the particle.


Hair Info
=========

This node gives access to strand information.

Is strand
   Returns 1 when the shader is acting on a strand, otherwise 0.
Intercept
   The point along the strand where the ray hits the strand (1 at the tip and 0 at the root).
Thickness
   The thickness of the strand at the point where the ray hits the strand.
Tangent Normal
   Tangent normal of the strand.


Tangent
=======

Generates a tangent direction for the Anisotropic BSDF.

Direction Type
   The tangent direction can be derived from a cylindrical projection around the X, Y or Z axis (Radial),
   or from a manually created UV Map for full control.
Tangent Output
   The tangent direction vector.

Commit message:

Fix T45030 and T45031
Update lightpath node docs; add description of the "Ray Depth" and "Transparent Depth" outputs.




git-svn-id: https://svn.blender.org/svnroot/bf-manual/trunk/blender_docs@561 c4de1f47-6596-e411-a384-0024e86c2797

manual/render/cycles/nodes/input.rst, after:


..    TODO/Review: {{review|text=z depth|im=examples}} .


***********
Input Nodes
***********

Camera Data
===========

View Vector
   A Camera space vector from the camera to the shading point.
View Z Depth
   TODO
View Distance
   Distance from the camera to the shading point.


Value
=====

Input a scalar value.

Value
   Value output.


RGB
===

Input an RGB color.

Color
   RGB color output.


Attribute
=========

Retrieve attribute attached to the object or mesh.
Currently UV maps and vertex color layers can be retrieved this way by their names,
with layers and attributes planned to be added. Also internal attributes like *P*
(position), *N* (normal), *Ng* (geometric normal) may be accessed this way,
although there are more convenient nodes for this.

Name
   Name of the attribute.
Color output
   RGB color interpolated from the attribute.
Vector output
   XYZ vector interpolated from the attribute.
Fac output
   Scalar value interpolated from the attribute.


Geometry
========

Geometric information about the current shading point.
All vector coordinates are in *World Space*. For volume shaders,
only the position and incoming vector are available.

Position
   Position of the shading point.
Normal
   Shading normal at the surface (includes smooth normals and bump mapping).
Tangent
   Tangent at the surface.
True Normal
   Geometry or flat normal of the surface.
Incoming
   Vector pointing towards the point the shading point is being viewed from.
Parametric
   Parametric coordinates of the shading point on the surface.
Backfacing
   1.0 if the face is being viewed from the back side, 0.0 for the front side.
Pointiness
   An approximation of the curvature of the mesh per-vertex.
   Lighter values indicate convex angles, darker values indicate concave angles.

Light Path
==========

Node to find out for which kind of incoming ray the shader is being executed;
particularly useful for non-physically based tricks.
More information about the meaning of each type is in the
:doc:`Light Paths </render/cycles/settings/light_paths>` documentation.

Is Camera Ray output
   1.0 if shading is executed for a camera ray, 0.0 otherwise.
Is Shadow Ray output
   1.0 if shading is executed for a shadow ray, 0.0 otherwise.
Is Diffuse Ray output
   1.0 if shading is executed for a diffuse ray, 0.0 otherwise.
Is Glossy Ray output
   1.0 if shading is executed for a glossy ray, 0.0 otherwise.
Is Singular Ray output
   1.0 if shading is executed for a singular ray, 0.0 otherwise.
Is Reflection Ray output
   1.0 if shading is executed for a reflection ray, 0.0 otherwise.
Is Transmission Ray output
   1.0 if shading is executed for a transmission ray, 0.0 otherwise.
Ray Length output
   Distance traveled by the light ray from the last bounce or camera.
Ray Depth
   Number of times the ray has "bounced", i.e. been reflected or transmitted on interaction with a surface.
   
   .. note::
      Passing through a transparent shader :ref:`does not count as a normal "bounce" <render-cycles-light_paths-transparency>`.
      
Transparent Depth
   Number of times the ray has passed through a transparent shader.
   

Object Info
===========

Information about the object instance.
This can be useful to give some variation to a single material assigned to multiple instances,
either manually controlled through the object index, based on the object location,
or randomized for each instance. For example a Noise texture can give random colors or a Color
ramp can give a range of colors to be randomly picked from.

Location
   Location of the object in world space.
Object Index
   Object pass index, same as in the Object Index pass.transformed.
Material Index
   Material pass index, same as in the Material Index pass.
Random
   Random number unique to a single object instance.


Fresnel
=======

Dielectric fresnel,
computing how much light is refracted through and how much is reflected off a layer.
The resulting weight can be used for layering shaders with the *Mix Shader* node.
It is dependent on the angle between the surface normal and the viewing direction.

:term:`IOR` input
   Index of refraction of the material being entered.
Fresnel output
   Fresnel weight, indicating the probability with which light
   will reflect off the layer rather than passing through.


Layer Weight
============

Output weights typically used for layering shaders with the *Mix Shader* node.

Blend input
   Blend between the first and second shader.
Fresnel output
   Dielectric fresnel weight,
   useful for example for layering diffuse and glossy shaders to create a plastic material.
   This is like the Fresnel node,
   except that the input of this node is in the often more-convenient 0.0 to 1.0 range.
Facing output
   Weight that blends from the first to the second shader
   as the surface goes from facing the viewer to viewing it at a grazing angle.


Texture Coordinates
===================

Commonly used texture coordinates,
typically used as inputs for the *Vector* input for texture nodes.

Generated
   Automatically-generated texture coordinates from the vertex positions of the mesh without deformation,
   keeping them sticking to the surface under animation. Range from 0.0 to 1.
   0 over the bounding box of the undeformed mesh.
Normal
   Object space normal, for texturing objects with the texture staying fixed on the object as it transformed.
UV
   UV texture coordinates from the active render UV layer.
Object
   Position coordinate in object space.
Camera
   Position coordinate in camera space.
Window
   Location of shading point on the screen, ranging from 0.0 to 1.
   0 from the left to right side and bottom to top of the render.
Reflection
   Vector in the direction of a sharp reflection, typically used for environment maps.


Particle Info
=============

For objects instanced from a particle system,
this node give access to the data of the particle that spawned the instance.

Index
   Index number of the particle (from 0 to number of particles).
Age
   Age of the particle in frames.
Lifetime
   Total lifespan of the particle in frames.
Location
   Location of the particle.
Size
   Size of the particle.
Velocity
   Velocity of the particle.
Angular Velocity
   Angular velocity of the particle.


Hair Info
=========

This node gives access to strand information.

Is strand
   Returns 1 when the shader is acting on a strand, otherwise 0.
Intercept
   The point along the strand where the ray hits the strand (1 at the tip and 0 at the root).
Thickness
   The thickness of the strand at the point where the ray hits the strand.
Tangent Normal
   Tangent normal of the strand.


Tangent
=======

Generates a tangent direction for the Anisotropic BSDF.

Direction Type
   The tangent direction can be derived from a cylindrical projection around the X, Y or Z axis (Radial),
   or from a manually created UV Map for full control.
Tangent Output
   The tangent direction vector.
