manual/render/freestyle/parameter_editor/line_style/geometry.rst, before:


********
Geometry
********

.. figure:: /images/Manual-2.6-Render-Freestyle-Line_Style_Geometry_UI.jpg
   :width: 300px

   Line Style Geometry Overall UI


In this tab you control the geometry of your strokes.


Modifiers
=========

There are thirteen geometry modifiers available.
These modifiers have no mix nor influence settings,
as they always completely apply to the strokes' geometry (like object modifiers do). They take
the resulting two-dimensional strokes from the Freestyle line set and displace or deform them
in various ways.

As with other modifier stacks in Blender, they are applied from top to bottom.


2D Offset
---------

The *2D Offset* modifier adds some two-dimensional offsets to the stroke backbone
geometry. It has two sets of independent options/effects:


.. figure:: /images/Manual-2.6-Render-Freestyle-Line_Style_Geometry_2D_Offset.jpg
   :width: 300px
   :align: right

Start and End
   These two options add the given amount of offset to the start (or end) point of the stroke, along the (2D)
   normal at those points. The effect is blended over the whole stroke, so if you, for example,
   set only *Start* to **50**, the start of the stroke is offset 50 pixels along its normal,
   the middle of the stroke, 25 pixels along its own normal, and the end point isn't moved.

X and Y
   These two options simply add a constant horizontal and/or vertical offset to the whole stroke.


2D Transform
------------


The *2D Transform* modifier applies two-dimensional scaling and/or rotation to the
stroke backbone geometry. Scale is applied before rotation.

The center (pivot point) of these 2D transformations can be:

.. figure:: /images/Manual-2.6-Render-Freestyle-Line_Style_Geometry_2D_Transform.jpg
   :width: 300px
   :align: right

Stroke Center
   The median point of the stroke.
Stroke Start
   The beginning point of the stroke.
Stroke End
   The end point of the stroke.
Stroke Point Parameter
   The *Stroke Point Parameter* factor controls where along the stroke the pivot point is
   (``0.0`` means start point; ``1.0`` end point).
Absolute 2D Point
   The *Pivot X* and *Pivot Y* allows you to define the position of the pivot point in the final
   render (from the bottom left corner). **WARNING** : Currently,
   you have to take into account the *real* render size, i.e. resolution **and** resolution percentage!

Scale X and Scale Y
   The scaling factors, in their respective axes.

Rotation Angle
   The rotation angle.


.. figure:: /images/2D_Transform.jpg
   :width: 400px
   :align: center

   2D Transform modifier
   `File:Toycar_Three_Contours.zip <http://wiki.blender.org/index.php/File:Toycar_Three_Contours.zip>`__


Backbone Stretcher
------------------

.. figure:: /images/Manual-2.6-Render-Freestyle-Line_Style_Geometry_Backbone_Stretcher.jpg
   :width: 300px
   :align: right

The *Backbone Stretcher* modifier stretches (adds some length to)
the beginning and end of the stroke.

Backbone Length
   Length to add to the strokes' ends.


Bezier Curve
------------

.. figure:: /images/Manual-2.6-Render-Freestyle-Line_Style_Geometry_Bezier_Curve.jpg
   :width: 300px
   :align: right

The *Bezier Curve* modifier replaces the stroke by a Bezier approximation of it.

Error
   The maximum distance allowed between the new Bezier curve and the original stroke.


.. figure:: /images/toycar_bezier.jpg
   :width: 400px
   :align: center

   Bezier Curve modifier demo by T.K.
   `File:toycar_bezier.zip <http://wiki.blender.org/index.php/File:toycar_bezier.zip>`__


Blueprint
---------


The *Blueprint* modifier produces blueprint-like strokes using either circular,
elliptical, or square contours. A blueprint here refers to those lines drawn at the beginning
of free-hand drawing to capture the silhouette of objects with a simple shape such as circles,
ellipses and squares.

.. figure:: /images/Manual-2.6-Render-Freestyle-Line_Style_Geometry_Blueprint.jpg
   :width: 300px
   :align: right

Shape
   Which base shapes to use for this blueprint: *Circles*, *Ellipses* or *Squares*.

Rounds
   How many rounds are generated, as if the pen draws the same stroke several times
   (i.e. how many times the process is repeated).

Random Radius and Random Center
   For the *Circles* and *Ellipses* shapes.
   Adds some randomness to each round in the relevant aspect.
   Using more than one round with no randomness would be meaningless, as they would draw over each other exactly.

Backbone Length and Random Backbone
   For the *Squares* shapes.
   The first adds some extra length to each edge of the generated squares (also affected by the second parameter).
   The second adds some randomness to the squares.

Note that the *Min 2D Length* feature from the *Strokes* settings is quite
handy here, to avoid the noise generated by small strokes...


Guiding Lines
-------------


The *Guiding Lines* modifier replaces a stroke by a straight line connecting both of
its ends.

.. figure:: /images/Manual-2.6-Render-Freestyle-Line_Style_Geometry_Guiding_Lines.jpg
   :width: 300px
   :align: right

Offset
   Offset the start and end points along the original stroke, before generating the new straight one.

This modifier will produce reasonable results when strokes are short enough,
because shorter strokes are more likely to be well approximated by straight lines. Therefore,
it is recommended to use this modifier together with one of the splitting options
(by 2D angle or by 2D length) from the *Strokes* panel.


.. figure:: /images/Toycar_Guiding_Line.jpg
   :width: 400px
   :align: center

   Guiding Lines modifier Demo by T.K.
   `File:Toycar_Guiding_Line.zip <http://wiki.blender.org/index.php/File:Toycar_Guiding_Line.zip>`__


Perlin Noise 1D
---------------


The *Perlin Noise 1D* modifier adds one-dimensional Perlin noise to the stroke. The curvilinear abscissa (value
between 0 and 1 determined by a points position relative to the first and last point of a stroke) as the input to the
noise function. 

This means that this modifier will give an identical result for two strokes with the same length and sampling
interval.

.. figure:: /images/Manual-2.6-Render-Freestyle-Line_Style_Geometry_Perlin_Noise_1D.jpg
   :width: 300px
   :align: right

Frequency
   How dense the noise is (kind of a scale factor along the stroke).

Amplitude
   How much the noise distorts the stroke in the *Angle* direction.

Seed
   The seed of the random generator (the same seed over a stroke will always give the same result).

Octaves
   The "level of detail" of the noise.

Angle
   In which direction the noise is applied (``0.0`` is fully horizontal).


Perlin Noise 2D
---------------

.. figure:: /images/Manual-2.6-Render-Freestyle-Line_Style_Geometry_Perlin_Noise_2D.jpg
   :width: 300px
   :align: right

The *Perlin Noise 2D* modifier adds one-dimensional Perlin noise to the stroke.

Its settings are exactly the same as the *Perlin Noise 1D* modifier.

TODO: What's the difference between those two modifiers?


Polygonization
--------------

.. figure:: /images/Manual-2.6-Render-Freestyle-Line_Style_Geometry_Polygonization.jpg
   :width: 300px
   :align: right


The *Poligonization* modifier simplifies strokes as much as possible
(in other words, it transforms smooth strokes into jagged polylines).

Error
   The maximum distance allowed between the new simplified stroke and the original one
   (the larger this value is, the more jagged/approximated the resulting polylines are).


Sampling
--------


The *Sampling* modifier changes the definition, precision of the stroke,
for the following modifiers.

.. figure:: /images/Manual-2.6-Render-Freestyle-Line_Style_Geometry_Sampling.jpg
   :width: 300px
   :align: right

Sampling
   The smaller this value, the more precise are the strokes.
   Be careful; too small values will require a huge amount of time and memory during render!


Sinus Displacement
------------------


The *Sinus Displacement* modifier adds a sinusoidal displacement to the stroke.

.. figure:: /images/Manual-2.6-Render-Freestyle-Line_Style_Geometry_Sinus_Displacement.jpg
   :width: 300px
   :align: right

Wavelength
   How wide the undulations are along the stroke.

Amplitude
   How high the undulations are across the stroke.

Phase
   Allows "offsetting" ("moving") the undulations along the stroke.


.. figure:: /images/Toycar_Sinus_Displacement.jpg
   :width: 300px
   :align: center

   Sinus Displacement modifier demo by T.K.
   `File:Toycar_Sinus.zip <http://wiki.blender.org/index.php/File:Toycar_Sinus.zip>`__


Spatial Noise
-------------

The *Spatial Noise* modifier adds some spatial noise to the stroke.

TODO: definition of "spatial noise"!

.. figure:: /images/Manual-2.6-Render-Freestyle-Line_Style_Geometry_Spatial_Noise.jpg
   :width: 300px
   :align: right

Amplitude
   How much the noise distorts the stroke.

Scale
   How wide the noise is along the stroke.

Octaves
   The level of detail of the noise.

Smooth
   When enabled, apply some smoothing over the generated noise.

Pure Random
   When disabled, the next generated random value depends on the previous one;
   otherwise they are completely independent. Disabling this setting gives a more "consistent" noise along a stroke.


Tip Remover
-----------


The *Tip Remover* modifier removes a piece of the stroke at its beginning and end.

.. figure:: /images/Manual-2.6-Render-Freestyle-Line_Style_Geometry_Tip_Remover.jpg
   :width: 300px
   :align: right

Tip Length
   Length of stroke to remove at both of its tips.


Simplification
--------------

.. figure:: /images/render_freestyle_simplification.png
   :width: 600px
   :align: center


The *Simplification* modifier merges stroke vertices that lie close to one another, like the *Decimate* modifier for
meshes. 

.. figure:: /images/render_freestyle_ui_geometry_simplification.png
   :width: 300px
   :align: right

Tolerance
   Measure for how close points have te to each other to be merged. A higher tolerance means more vertices are merged.

Commit message:

Freestyle: Addressed two TODO items.
- Difference between the 1D and 2D Perlin Noise modifiers.
- Definition of spatial noise.

git-svn-id: https://svn.blender.org/svnroot/bf-manual/trunk/blender_docs@495 c4de1f47-6596-e411-a384-0024e86c2797

manual/render/freestyle/parameter_editor/line_style/geometry.rst, after:


********
Geometry
********

.. figure:: /images/Manual-2.6-Render-Freestyle-Line_Style_Geometry_UI.jpg
   :width: 300px

   Line Style Geometry Overall UI


In this tab you control the geometry of your strokes.


Modifiers
=========

There are thirteen geometry modifiers available.
These modifiers have no mix nor influence settings,
as they always completely apply to the strokes' geometry (like object modifiers do). They take
the resulting two-dimensional strokes from the Freestyle line set and displace or deform them
in various ways.

As with other modifier stacks in Blender, they are applied from top to bottom.


2D Offset
---------

The *2D Offset* modifier adds some two-dimensional offsets to the stroke backbone
geometry. It has two sets of independent options/effects:


.. figure:: /images/Manual-2.6-Render-Freestyle-Line_Style_Geometry_2D_Offset.jpg
   :width: 300px
   :align: right

Start and End
   These two options add the given amount of offset to the start (or end) point of the stroke, along the (2D)
   normal at those points. The effect is blended over the whole stroke, so if you, for example,
   set only *Start* to **50**, the start of the stroke is offset 50 pixels along its normal,
   the middle of the stroke, 25 pixels along its own normal, and the end point isn't moved.

X and Y
   These two options simply add a constant horizontal and/or vertical offset to the whole stroke.


2D Transform
------------


The *2D Transform* modifier applies two-dimensional scaling and/or rotation to the
stroke backbone geometry. Scale is applied before rotation.

The center (pivot point) of these 2D transformations can be:

.. figure:: /images/Manual-2.6-Render-Freestyle-Line_Style_Geometry_2D_Transform.jpg
   :width: 300px
   :align: right

Stroke Center
   The median point of the stroke.
Stroke Start
   The beginning point of the stroke.
Stroke End
   The end point of the stroke.
Stroke Point Parameter
   The *Stroke Point Parameter* factor controls where along the stroke the pivot point is
   (``0.0`` means start point; ``1.0`` end point).
Absolute 2D Point
   The *Pivot X* and *Pivot Y* allows you to define the position of the pivot point in the final
   render (from the bottom left corner). **WARNING** : Currently,
   you have to take into account the *real* render size, i.e. resolution **and** resolution percentage!

Scale X and Scale Y
   The scaling factors, in their respective axes.

Rotation Angle
   The rotation angle.


.. figure:: /images/2D_Transform.jpg
   :width: 400px
   :align: center

   2D Transform modifier
   `File:Toycar_Three_Contours.zip <http://wiki.blender.org/index.php/File:Toycar_Three_Contours.zip>`__


Backbone Stretcher
------------------

.. figure:: /images/Manual-2.6-Render-Freestyle-Line_Style_Geometry_Backbone_Stretcher.jpg
   :width: 300px
   :align: right

The *Backbone Stretcher* modifier stretches (adds some length to)
the beginning and end of the stroke.

Backbone Length
   Length to add to the strokes' ends.


Bezier Curve
------------

.. figure:: /images/Manual-2.6-Render-Freestyle-Line_Style_Geometry_Bezier_Curve.jpg
   :width: 300px
   :align: right

The *Bezier Curve* modifier replaces the stroke by a Bezier approximation of it.

Error
   The maximum distance allowed between the new Bezier curve and the original stroke.


.. figure:: /images/toycar_bezier.jpg
   :width: 400px
   :align: center

   Bezier Curve modifier demo by T.K.
   `File:toycar_bezier.zip <http://wiki.blender.org/index.php/File:toycar_bezier.zip>`__


Blueprint
---------


The *Blueprint* modifier produces blueprint-like strokes using either circular,
elliptical, or square contours. A blueprint here refers to those lines drawn at the beginning
of free-hand drawing to capture the silhouette of objects with a simple shape such as circles,
ellipses and squares.

.. figure:: /images/Manual-2.6-Render-Freestyle-Line_Style_Geometry_Blueprint.jpg
   :width: 300px
   :align: right

Shape
   Which base shapes to use for this blueprint: *Circles*, *Ellipses* or *Squares*.

Rounds
   How many rounds are generated, as if the pen draws the same stroke several times
   (i.e. how many times the process is repeated).

Random Radius and Random Center
   For the *Circles* and *Ellipses* shapes.
   Adds some randomness to each round in the relevant aspect.
   Using more than one round with no randomness would be meaningless, as they would draw over each other exactly.

Backbone Length and Random Backbone
   For the *Squares* shapes.
   The first adds some extra length to each edge of the generated squares (also affected by the second parameter).
   The second adds some randomness to the squares.

Note that the *Min 2D Length* feature from the *Strokes* settings is quite
handy here, to avoid the noise generated by small strokes...


Guiding Lines
-------------


The *Guiding Lines* modifier replaces a stroke by a straight line connecting both of
its ends.

.. figure:: /images/Manual-2.6-Render-Freestyle-Line_Style_Geometry_Guiding_Lines.jpg
   :width: 300px
   :align: right

Offset
   Offset the start and end points along the original stroke, before generating the new straight one.

This modifier will produce reasonable results when strokes are short enough,
because shorter strokes are more likely to be well approximated by straight lines. Therefore,
it is recommended to use this modifier together with one of the splitting options
(by 2D angle or by 2D length) from the *Strokes* panel.


.. figure:: /images/Toycar_Guiding_Line.jpg
   :width: 400px
   :align: center

   Guiding Lines modifier Demo by T.K.
   `File:Toycar_Guiding_Line.zip <http://wiki.blender.org/index.php/File:Toycar_Guiding_Line.zip>`__


Perlin Noise 1D
---------------


The *Perlin Noise 1D* modifier adds one-dimensional Perlin noise to the stroke. The curvilinear abscissa (value
between 0 and 1 determined by a point's position relative to the first and last point of a stroke) as the input to the
noise function.

This means that this modifier will give an identical result for two strokes with the same length and sampling
interval.

.. figure:: /images/Manual-2.6-Render-Freestyle-Line_Style_Geometry_Perlin_Noise_1D.jpg
   :width: 300px
   :align: right

Frequency
   How dense the noise is (kind of a scale factor along the stroke).

Amplitude
   How much the noise distorts the stroke in the *Angle* direction.

Seed
   The seed of the random generator (the same seed over a stroke will always give the same result).

Octaves
   The "level of detail" of the noise.

Angle
   In which direction the noise is applied (``0.0`` is fully horizontal).


Perlin Noise 2D
---------------

.. figure:: /images/Manual-2.6-Render-Freestyle-Line_Style_Geometry_Perlin_Noise_2D.jpg
   :width: 300px
   :align: right

The *Perlin Noise 2D* modifier adds one-dimensional Perlin noise to the stroke.  The modifier generates noisy
displacements using 2D coordinates of stroke vertices as the input of the noise generator.

Its settings are exactly the same as the *Perlin Noise 1D* modifier.


Polygonization
--------------

.. figure:: /images/Manual-2.6-Render-Freestyle-Line_Style_Geometry_Polygonization.jpg
   :width: 300px
   :align: right


The *Poligonization* modifier simplifies strokes as much as possible
(in other words, it transforms smooth strokes into jagged polylines).

Error
   The maximum distance allowed between the new simplified stroke and the original one
   (the larger this value is, the more jagged/approximated the resulting polylines are).


Sampling
--------


The *Sampling* modifier changes the definition, precision of the stroke,
for the following modifiers.

.. figure:: /images/Manual-2.6-Render-Freestyle-Line_Style_Geometry_Sampling.jpg
   :width: 300px
   :align: right

Sampling
   The smaller this value, the more precise are the strokes.
   Be careful; too small values will require a huge amount of time and memory during render!


Sinus Displacement
------------------


The *Sinus Displacement* modifier adds a sinusoidal displacement to the stroke.

.. figure:: /images/Manual-2.6-Render-Freestyle-Line_Style_Geometry_Sinus_Displacement.jpg
   :width: 300px
   :align: right

Wavelength
   How wide the undulations are along the stroke.

Amplitude
   How high the undulations are across the stroke.

Phase
   Allows "offsetting" ("moving") the undulations along the stroke.


.. figure:: /images/Toycar_Sinus_Displacement.jpg
   :width: 300px
   :align: center

   Sinus Displacement modifier demo by T.K.
   `File:Toycar_Sinus.zip <http://wiki.blender.org/index.php/File:Toycar_Sinus.zip>`__


Spatial Noise
-------------

The *Spatial Noise* modifier adds some spatial noise to the stroke.  Spatial noise displacements are added in the normal
direction (i.e., the direction perpendicular to the tangent line) evaluated at each stroke vertex.

.. figure:: /images/Manual-2.6-Render-Freestyle-Line_Style_Geometry_Spatial_Noise.jpg
   :width: 300px
   :align: right

Amplitude
   How much the noise distorts the stroke.

Scale
   How wide the noise is along the stroke.

Octaves
   The level of detail of the noise.

Smooth
   When enabled, apply some smoothing over the generated noise.

Pure Random
   When disabled, the next generated random value depends on the previous one;
   otherwise they are completely independent. Disabling this setting gives a more "consistent" noise along a stroke.


Tip Remover
-----------


The *Tip Remover* modifier removes a piece of the stroke at its beginning and end.

.. figure:: /images/Manual-2.6-Render-Freestyle-Line_Style_Geometry_Tip_Remover.jpg
   :width: 300px
   :align: right

Tip Length
   Length of stroke to remove at both of its tips.


Simplification
--------------

.. figure:: /images/render_freestyle_simplification.png
   :width: 600px
   :align: center


The *Simplification* modifier merges stroke vertices that lie close to one another, like the *Decimate* modifier for
meshes. 

.. figure:: /images/render_freestyle_ui_geometry_simplification.png
   :width: 300px
   :align: right

Tolerance
   Measure for how close points have te to each other to be merged. A higher tolerance means more vertices are merged.
