manual/render/blender_render/textures/assigning_a_texture.rst, before:


*******************
Assigning a Texture
*******************

This page just shows how to add a texture to a slot.
The textures' commons options are explained :doc:`here </render/blender_render/textures/options>`.


Choosing the Texture context
============================

.. figure:: /images/Textures-top-panel.jpg
   :width: 300px

   Texture panel


In the Properties editor, choose the Texture context: this will show the Texture panel.


Choosing the Texture data type
==============================

.. figure:: /images/Textures-panel.jpg
   :width: 311px

   Texture panel with buttons for Material, World, and Brush textures highlighted


The three buttons *Material*, *World*,
*Brush* at the top of the texture panel indicate the texture data type, that is,
the kind of texture that is being edited.


.. figure:: /images/Textures-Lamp-panel.jpg
   :width: 300px

   Texture panel with button for Lamp textures highlighted


Textures Slots
==============

.. figure:: /images/Textures-top-panel.jpg
   :width: 300px

   Texture panel


The list below these buttons represent the *Stack* of textures that we can manage.
It can have up to eighteen *Texture Slots*:


- Tick or untick a texture to enable/disable it.
- Use the three buttons on the right side to move individual textures
  up and down in the stack or to copy/paste material's settings between slots.


Creating a new Texture Datablock in a new Texture Slot
======================================================

Select an empty slot, then click on the *New* button.

This will do two things:

- it will create a new texture datablock
- also, it will add a new slot in the textures stack


Creating a new Texture Datablock in a non-empty slot
====================================================

Select a non-empty slot, then click on the *Plus* button.

This will do two things:

- it will create a new texture datablock, with a new name,
  **making a copy of the texture datablock assigned to the selected slot**
- it will assign this new datablock to the selected slot


Sharing a Texture Datablock in a non-empty slot
===============================================

- Select a non-empty slot, then click on the *Browse* button.
  This will open a menu showing all the available Texture Datablocks in this file.
- Choose a texture datablock in the menu to assign it to the selected slot.
  This will share the chosen texture with more than one object,
  hence the *Number of users* shown in the texture datablock will increase by one.

Commit message:

Rename datablocks -> data-blocks
git-svn-id: https://svn.blender.org/svnroot/bf-manual/trunk/blender_docs@847 c4de1f47-6596-e411-a384-0024e86c2797

manual/render/blender_render/textures/assigning_a_texture.rst, after:


*******************
Assigning a Texture
*******************

This page just shows how to add a texture to a slot.
The textures' commons options are explained :doc:`here </render/blender_render/textures/options>`.


Choosing the Texture context
============================

.. figure:: /images/Textures-top-panel.jpg
   :width: 300px

   Texture panel


In the Properties editor, choose the Texture context: this will show the Texture panel.


Choosing the Texture data type
==============================

.. figure:: /images/Textures-panel.jpg
   :width: 311px

   Texture panel with buttons for Material, World, and Brush textures highlighted


The three buttons *Material*, *World*,
*Brush* at the top of the texture panel indicate the texture data type, that is,
the kind of texture that is being edited.


.. figure:: /images/Textures-Lamp-panel.jpg
   :width: 300px

   Texture panel with button for Lamp textures highlighted


Textures Slots
==============

.. figure:: /images/Textures-top-panel.jpg
   :width: 300px

   Texture panel


The list below these buttons represent the *Stack* of textures that we can manage.
It can have up to eighteen *Texture Slots*:


- Tick or untick a texture to enable/disable it.
- Use the three buttons on the right side to move individual textures
  up and down in the stack or to copy/paste material's settings between slots.


Creating a new Texture Data-Block in a new Texture Slot
=======================================================

Select an empty slot, then click on the *New* button.

This will do two things:

- it will create a new texture data-block
- also, it will add a new slot in the textures stack


Creating a new Texture Data-Block in a non-empty slot
=====================================================

Select a non-empty slot, then click on the *Plus* button.

This will do two things:

- it will create a new texture data-block, with a new name,
  **making a copy of the texture data-block assigned to the selected slot**
- it will assign this new data-block to the selected slot


Sharing a Texture Data-Block in a non-empty slot
================================================

- Select a non-empty slot, then click on the *Browse* button.
  This will open a menu showing all the available Texture data-blocks in this file.
- Choose a texture data-block in the menu to assign it to the selected slot.
  This will share the chosen texture with more than one object,
  hence the *Number of users* shown in the texture data-block will increase by one.
