manual/render/blender_render/materials/options.rst, before:


*******
Options
*******

Materials
=========

Materials can be linked to objects and Object's data in the materials panel, of the Shading/Material context.
Here is where you can manage how materials are linked to objects, meshes, etc.
and activate a material for editing in the rest of the panels.


Context
=======

.. figure:: /images/Material-MatMenu-MatAdded-ObjectMode.jpg

   Material panel


At the top of the material menu a list of icons explains the context in which the material is being edited.
In the example above, the material *Material* is linked to the object *Cube* which is linked to the scene *Scene*.

By toggling the pin symbol on the left side on and off,
Blender can be told to display only the selected material or to follow context.


Material slots
--------------

With a material linked or created, one or several material slots can be created and further options become available:

Plus sign
   Add a new material slot or copy the one selected
Minus sign
   Remove selected material slot
Down arrow
   Copy and paste the selected material slot


Multiple materials
------------------

Meshes can handle having more than one material.
Materials can be mapped on a per-face basis,
as detailed on the :doc:`Multiple Materials </render/blender_render/materials/multiple_materials>` page.
In edit mode, the following tools appear:

Assign
   Assign the material in the selected material slot to selected vertices
Select
   Select vertices assigned to the selected material slot
Deselect
   Deselect vertices assigned to the selected material slot


Material naming and linking
---------------------------

.. figure:: /images/Material-MatMenu-LinkObjData.jpg

   Link material to object or to object's data

Material's name field
   click into this field to rename your material
Number of users (number field)
   The number of objects or object's data that use the material. This material is linked between the various objects,
   and will update across all of them when edited. Clicking this number will make a 'single user copy',
   duplicating the material, with it linked only to the active object/object's data.
F (Fake user)
   Gives the material a 'fake user', to keep the material datablock saved in the .blend file,
   even if it has no real users.
Plus sign
   Add a new material.
X sign
   Remove link to this material.
Nodes
   Designates this material to be a material node noodle, and not from the Material/Ramps/Shaders settings.
Datablock links
   The Link pop-up menu has two choices, Data and Object.
   These two menu choices determine whether the material is linked to the object or to the data,
   (in this case, the mesh). The Data menu item determines that this material will be linked to the mesh's
   datablock which is linked to the object's datablock.
   The Object menu item determines that the material will be linked to the object's data block directly.

   This has consequences of course. For example, different objects may share the same mesh datablock.
   Since this datablock defines the shape of the object any change in edit mode will be reflected on all of those
   objects. Moreover, anything linked to that mesh datablock will be shared by every object that shares that mesh.
   So, if the material is linked to the mesh, every object will share it.

   On the other hand, if the material is linked directly to the object datablock, the objects can have
   different materials and still share the same mesh.

   Short explanation: If connected to the object, you can have several instances of the same obData using
   different materials. If linked to mesh data, you can't.


Material type
-------------

Material added in edit mode
These toggles tell Blender where this material fits into the Render Pipeline,
and what aspects of the material are to be rendered.

Surface
   Render object as a surface
Wire
   Render the edges of faces as wires (not supported in ray tracing)
Volume
   Render object as a volume. See `Volume Material`_
Halo
   Render object as halo particles. See `Halo Material`_


Material Properties Overview
============================

The usage of each section of the material properties are detailed in the next section.


Surface and Wire materials
--------------------------

Surface material types are the most common materials. They represent objects with a defined surface.

Wire materials simply turn all of an object's edges into rods, which then become renderable,
but uses the same shading options as surface materials.


Preview
^^^^^^^

This is a preview of the current material mapped on to one of several objects.

- Flat Plane
- Sphere
- Cube
- Monkey
- Strands
- Large Sphere with Sky

See :doc:`Preview </render/blender_render/materials/properties/preview>`


Diffuse
^^^^^^^

Diffuse shading simulates light hitting a surface and bouncing off in a very wide angle.
You can set the color of the diffuse shading, and set what model is used for the diffuse calculation.

See :doc:`Diffuse Shaders </render/blender_render/materials/properties/diffuse_shaders>`


Specular
^^^^^^^^

Specularity simulates reflections of light sources, that are often sharp, bright spots.
You can set the color of the specular shading, and set what model is used for the specular calculation.

See :doc:`Specular Shaders </render/blender_render/materials/properties/specular_shaders>`


Shading
^^^^^^^

Emit
   Adds extra illumination, as if the material is glowing.
Ambient
   Sets the global amibient light the material receives
Translucency
   Amount of shading on the back side that shows through. Use to simulate thin objects, like leaves or paper.
Shadeless
   This disables the calculation of any shading, so only color information is visible.
   This is essentially makes it a "surface shader"
Tangent Shading
   Use the material's tangent vector instead of the normal for shading - for anisotropic shading effects
   (e.g. soft hair and brushed metal). This shading was introduced in 2.42,
   see also settings for strand rendering in the menu further down and in the Particle System menu.
Cubic Interpolation
   Use cubic interpolation for diffuse values, for smoother transitions between light areas and dark areas


Transparency
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Set options for objects in which light can pass through

See :doc:`Transparency </render/blender_render/materials/properties/transparency>`


Mirror
^^^^^^

Here you can set options for materials that are reflective

See :doc:`Mirror </render/blender_render/materials/properties/mirror>`


Subsurface Scattering
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Subsurface scattering simulates semi translucent objects in which light enters, bounces around,
then exits in a different place. Examples are candles, human skin, cheese, etc.

See :doc:`Subsurface Scattering </render/blender_render/materials/properties/subsurface_scattering>`


Strand
^^^^^^

These settings are used when rendering the material on fur or hair

See :doc:`Strands </render/blender_render/materials/properties/strands>`


Options
^^^^^^^

Traceable
   Allows material to calculated raytracing, for reflections and refractions.
Full Oversampling
   Forces material to render full shading and textures for all Anti-Aliasing Samples.
Sky
   Renders material with no alpha, replacing the background with the sky
Use Mist
   Uses Mist with this material.
Invert Z Depth
   Renders materials faces with an inverted Z buffer.
Z Offset
   If using Invert Z Depth, this is an artificial offset to z values.
Light Group
   Limit material's lighting calculation to a specific light group
Exclusive
   Material uses light group exclusively
Face Textures
   Replaces object's base color with color from face assigned image textures.
Face Textures Alpha
   Replaces object's base alpha value with alpha from face assigned image textures.
Vertex Color Paint
   Replaces object's base color with vertex colors.
Vertex Color Light
   Adds vertex color as additional light.
Object Color
   Modulate the result with a per object color.


Shadow
^^^^^^

Receive
   Allows the material to receive shadows cast by other objects
Receive Transparent
   Allows material to receive transparent shadows cast by other transparent objects.
Cast Only
   Causes objects with the material to only cast a shadow, and not appear in renders.
Casting Alpha
   Sets the Alpha of shadow casting. Used for irregular and deep shadow buffering.
Shadows Only
   Renders shadows as materials alpha value, making materials transparent, except for shadowed areas.
Shadow Only Type
   Set the type of shadows used when Shadows Only is enabled

   - Shadow and Distance
   - Shadow Only
   - Shadows and Shading
Cast Buffer Shadow
   Allows material to cast shadows from buffer lamps.
Buffer Bias
   Factor to multiply shadow buffer by.
Auto Ray Bias
   Prevents raytraced shadow errors on surfaces with smooth normals
Ray Bias
   Shadow raytracing bias value to prevent terminator artifacts on shadow boudary.
Cast Approximate
   Allow material to cast shadows when using Approximate Ambient Occlusion}}


Volume Material
---------------

Volume materials represent volumes of tiny particles, like clouds or smoke.
They are very different from standard materials,
but are detailed in the :doc:`Volume </render/blender_render/materials/special_effects/volume>` Page.


Halo Material
-------------

Halo materials renders each of the objects points as glowing dots.
This is a useful material for simulating particle effects or lens flares.
They are detailed on the :doc:`Halo </render/blender_render/materials/special_effects/halo>` Page.

Commit message:

Rename datablocks -> data-blocks
git-svn-id: https://svn.blender.org/svnroot/bf-manual/trunk/blender_docs@847 c4de1f47-6596-e411-a384-0024e86c2797

manual/render/blender_render/materials/options.rst, after:


*******
Options
*******

Materials
=========

Materials can be linked to objects and Object's data in the materials panel, of the Shading/Material context.
Here is where you can manage how materials are linked to objects, meshes, etc.
and activate a material for editing in the rest of the panels.


Context
=======

.. figure:: /images/Material-MatMenu-MatAdded-ObjectMode.jpg

   Material panel


At the top of the material menu a list of icons explains the context in which the material is being edited.
In the example above, the material *Material* is linked to the object *Cube* which is linked to the scene *Scene*.

By toggling the pin symbol on the left side on and off,
Blender can be told to display only the selected material or to follow context.


Material slots
--------------

With a material linked or created, one or several material slots can be created and further options become available:

Plus sign
   Add a new material slot or copy the one selected
Minus sign
   Remove selected material slot
Down arrow
   Copy and paste the selected material slot


Multiple materials
------------------

Meshes can handle having more than one material.
Materials can be mapped on a per-face basis,
as detailed on the :doc:`Multiple Materials </render/blender_render/materials/multiple_materials>` page.
In edit mode, the following tools appear:

Assign
   Assign the material in the selected material slot to selected vertices
Select
   Select vertices assigned to the selected material slot
Deselect
   Deselect vertices assigned to the selected material slot


Material naming and linking
---------------------------

.. figure:: /images/Material-MatMenu-LinkObjData.jpg

   Link material to object or to object's data

Material's name field
   click into this field to rename your material
Number of users (number field)
   The number of objects or object's data that use the material. This material is linked between the various objects,
   and will update across all of them when edited. Clicking this number will make a 'single user copy',
   duplicating the material, with it linked only to the active object/object's data.
F (Fake user)
   Gives the material a 'fake user', to keep the material data-block saved in the .blend file,
   even if it has no real users.
Plus sign
   Add a new material.
X sign
   Remove link to this material.
Nodes
   Designates this material to be a material node noodle, and not from the Material/Ramps/Shaders settings.
Data-block links
   The Link pop-up menu has two choices, Data and Object.
   These two menu choices determine whether the material is linked to the object or to the data,
   (in this case, the mesh). The Data menu item determines that this material will be linked to the mesh's
   data-block which is linked to the object's data-block.
   The Object menu item determines that the material will be linked to the object's data block directly.

   This has consequences of course. For example, different objects may share the same mesh data-block.
   Since this data-block defines the shape of the object any change in edit mode will be reflected on all of those
   objects. Moreover, anything linked to that mesh data-block will be shared by every object that shares that mesh.
   So, if the material is linked to the mesh, every object will share it.

   On the other hand, if the material is linked directly to the object data-block, the objects can have
   different materials and still share the same mesh.

   Short explanation: If connected to the object, you can have several instances of the same obData using
   different materials. If linked to mesh data, you can't.


Material type
-------------

Material added in edit mode
These toggles tell Blender where this material fits into the Render Pipeline,
and what aspects of the material are to be rendered.

Surface
   Render object as a surface
Wire
   Render the edges of faces as wires (not supported in ray tracing)
Volume
   Render object as a volume. See `Volume Material`_
Halo
   Render object as halo particles. See `Halo Material`_


Material Properties Overview
============================

The usage of each section of the material properties are detailed in the next section.


Surface and Wire materials
--------------------------

Surface material types are the most common materials. They represent objects with a defined surface.

Wire materials simply turn all of an object's edges into rods, which then become renderable,
but uses the same shading options as surface materials.


Preview
^^^^^^^

This is a preview of the current material mapped on to one of several objects.

- Flat Plane
- Sphere
- Cube
- Monkey
- Strands
- Large Sphere with Sky

See :doc:`Preview </render/blender_render/materials/properties/preview>`


Diffuse
^^^^^^^

Diffuse shading simulates light hitting a surface and bouncing off in a very wide angle.
You can set the color of the diffuse shading, and set what model is used for the diffuse calculation.

See :doc:`Diffuse Shaders </render/blender_render/materials/properties/diffuse_shaders>`


Specular
^^^^^^^^

Specularity simulates reflections of light sources, that are often sharp, bright spots.
You can set the color of the specular shading, and set what model is used for the specular calculation.

See :doc:`Specular Shaders </render/blender_render/materials/properties/specular_shaders>`


Shading
^^^^^^^

Emit
   Adds extra illumination, as if the material is glowing.
Ambient
   Sets the global amibient light the material receives
Translucency
   Amount of shading on the back side that shows through. Use to simulate thin objects, like leaves or paper.
Shadeless
   This disables the calculation of any shading, so only color information is visible.
   This is essentially makes it a "surface shader"
Tangent Shading
   Use the material's tangent vector instead of the normal for shading - for anisotropic shading effects
   (e.g. soft hair and brushed metal). This shading was introduced in 2.42,
   see also settings for strand rendering in the menu further down and in the Particle System menu.
Cubic Interpolation
   Use cubic interpolation for diffuse values, for smoother transitions between light areas and dark areas


Transparency
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Set options for objects in which light can pass through

See :doc:`Transparency </render/blender_render/materials/properties/transparency>`


Mirror
^^^^^^

Here you can set options for materials that are reflective

See :doc:`Mirror </render/blender_render/materials/properties/mirror>`


Subsurface Scattering
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Subsurface scattering simulates semi translucent objects in which light enters, bounces around,
then exits in a different place. Examples are candles, human skin, cheese, etc.

See :doc:`Subsurface Scattering </render/blender_render/materials/properties/subsurface_scattering>`


Strand
^^^^^^

These settings are used when rendering the material on fur or hair

See :doc:`Strands </render/blender_render/materials/properties/strands>`


Options
^^^^^^^

Traceable
   Allows material to calculated raytracing, for reflections and refractions.
Full Oversampling
   Forces material to render full shading and textures for all Anti-Aliasing Samples.
Sky
   Renders material with no alpha, replacing the background with the sky
Use Mist
   Uses Mist with this material.
Invert Z Depth
   Renders materials faces with an inverted Z buffer.
Z Offset
   If using Invert Z Depth, this is an artificial offset to z values.
Light Group
   Limit material's lighting calculation to a specific light group
Exclusive
   Material uses light group exclusively
Face Textures
   Replaces object's base color with color from face assigned image textures.
Face Textures Alpha
   Replaces object's base alpha value with alpha from face assigned image textures.
Vertex Color Paint
   Replaces object's base color with vertex colors.
Vertex Color Light
   Adds vertex color as additional light.
Object Color
   Modulate the result with a per object color.


Shadow
^^^^^^

Receive
   Allows the material to receive shadows cast by other objects
Receive Transparent
   Allows material to receive transparent shadows cast by other transparent objects.
Cast Only
   Causes objects with the material to only cast a shadow, and not appear in renders.
Casting Alpha
   Sets the Alpha of shadow casting. Used for irregular and deep shadow buffering.
Shadows Only
   Renders shadows as materials alpha value, making materials transparent, except for shadowed areas.
Shadow Only Type
   Set the type of shadows used when Shadows Only is enabled

   - Shadow and Distance
   - Shadow Only
   - Shadows and Shading
Cast Buffer Shadow
   Allows material to cast shadows from buffer lamps.
Buffer Bias
   Factor to multiply shadow buffer by.
Auto Ray Bias
   Prevents raytraced shadow errors on surfaces with smooth normals
Ray Bias
   Shadow raytracing bias value to prevent terminator artifacts on shadow boudary.
Cast Approximate
   Allow material to cast shadows when using Approximate Ambient Occlusion}}


Volume Material
---------------

Volume materials represent volumes of tiny particles, like clouds or smoke.
They are very different from standard materials,
but are detailed in the :doc:`Volume </render/blender_render/materials/special_effects/volume>` Page.


Halo Material
-------------

Halo materials renders each of the objects points as glowing dots.
This is a useful material for simulating particle effects or lens flares.
They are detailed on the :doc:`Halo </render/blender_render/materials/special_effects/halo>` Page.
