manual/troubleshooting/3d_view.rst, before:


***************************
Troubleshooting the 3D View
***************************

.. admonition:: TODO
   :class: error

   See: https://developer.blender.org/T43810


Drawing
=======


Depth Buffer Glitches
---------------------

TODO, see: http://blender.stackexchange.com/questions/1385


Performance
===========


Slow Drawing
------------

TODO.


Slow Selection
--------------

Blender uses OpenGL drawing for selection,
some graphics card drivers are slow at performing this operation *(since its not in common used for games)*.

This becomes especially problematic on dense geometry.

Possible Solutions:

OpenGL Occlusion Queries (User Preference)
   See :menuselection:`User Preferences --> System --> Selection`

   This option defaults *Automatic*, try setting this to *OpenGL Occlusion Queries*,
   since there is a significant performance difference under some configurations.
OpenGL :term:`Vertex Buffer Objects <VBO>`
   See :menuselection:`User Preferences --> System --> VBOs`

   This uses a more optimal drawing method which may speed up selection.
Upgrade OpenGL Driver
   In some cases slow selection is resolved by using updated drivers.

   *It's generally good to use recent drivers when using 3D software.*
Select Centers (Workaround)
   In *Object Mode*, holding :kbd:`Ctrl` while selecting uses the object center point.
   While this can be useful on its own, its has the side-effect of not relying on OpenGL selection.
Change Draw Modes (Workaround)
   Using *Wireframe* or even *Bounding Box* draw modes can used to more quickly select different objects.

.. note::

   Obviously the workarounds listed here aren't long term solutions,
   but its handy to know if you're stuck using a system with poor OpenGL support.

   Ultimately, if none of these options work out it may be worth upgrading your hardware.


Navigation
==========


Lost in Space
-------------

When navigating your scene, you may accidentally navigate away from your scene
and find yourself with a blank view-port

TODO.


Invisible Limit Zooming In
--------------------------

TODO, see: http://blender.stackexchange.com/questions/644


Tools
=====


.. _troubleshooting-3d_view-invalid_selection:

Invalid Selection
-----------------

There are times when selection fails under some configurations,
often this is noticeable in mesh *Edit Mode*,
selecting vertices/edges/faces where random elements are selected.

Internally Blender uses :term:`OpenGL` for selection,
so the graphics card driver is relied on giving correct results.

Possible Solutions:

Disable Anti-Aliasing (:term:`FSAA, Multi-Sampling<FSAA>`)
   This is by far the most common cause of selection issues.

   There are known problems with some graphics cards when using FSAA/multi-sampling.

   You can disable this option by:

   - Turning FSAA/multi-sampling off in your graphics card driver options.
   - Turning *Multi-Sampling* off in the :ref:`system preferences <preferences-system-multi_sampling>`.
Change Anti-Aliasing Sample Settings
   Depending on your OpenGL configuration,
   some specific sample settings may work, while others fail.

   Unfortunately finding working configuration involves trial & error testing.
Upgrade OpenGL Driver
   As with any OpenGL related issues, using recent drivers can resolve problems.

   However it should be noted that this is a fairly common problem and remains unresolved with many drivers.

Commit message:

Move tip on camera clipping limits into troubleshooting
git-svn-id: https://svn.blender.org/svnroot/bf-manual/trunk/blender_docs@684 c4de1f47-6596-e411-a384-0024e86c2797

manual/troubleshooting/3d_view.rst, after:


***************************
Troubleshooting the 3D View
***************************

.. admonition:: TODO
   :class: error

   See: https://developer.blender.org/T43810


Drawing
=======


Depth Buffer Glitches
---------------------

TODO, see: http://blender.stackexchange.com/questions/1385


Objects Invisible in Camera View
--------------------------------

If you have a large scene, viewing it through Camera View may not display all of the Objects in the scene.
One possibility may be that the :ref:`clipping distance <camera-clipping>` of the camera is too low.
The camera will only show objects that fall within the clipping range.


Performance
===========


Slow Drawing
------------

TODO.


Slow Selection
--------------

Blender uses OpenGL drawing for selection,
some graphics card drivers are slow at performing this operation *(since its not in common used for games)*.

This becomes especially problematic on dense geometry.

Possible Solutions:

OpenGL Occlusion Queries (User Preference)
   See :menuselection:`User Preferences --> System --> Selection`

   This option defaults *Automatic*, try setting this to *OpenGL Occlusion Queries*,
   since there is a significant performance difference under some configurations.
OpenGL :term:`Vertex Buffer Objects <VBO>`
   See :menuselection:`User Preferences --> System --> VBOs`

   This uses a more optimal drawing method which may speed up selection.
Upgrade OpenGL Driver
   In some cases slow selection is resolved by using updated drivers.

   *It's generally good to use recent drivers when using 3D software.*
Select Centers (Workaround)
   In *Object Mode*, holding :kbd:`Ctrl` while selecting uses the object center point.
   While this can be useful on its own, its has the side-effect of not relying on OpenGL selection.
Change Draw Modes (Workaround)
   Using *Wireframe* or even *Bounding Box* draw modes can used to more quickly select different objects.

.. note::

   Obviously the workarounds listed here aren't long term solutions,
   but its handy to know if you're stuck using a system with poor OpenGL support.

   Ultimately, if none of these options work out it may be worth upgrading your hardware.


Navigation
==========


Lost in Space
-------------

When navigating your scene, you may accidentally navigate away from your scene
and find yourself with a blank view-port

TODO.


Invisible Limit Zooming In
--------------------------

TODO, see: http://blender.stackexchange.com/questions/644


Tools
=====


.. _troubleshooting-3d_view-invalid_selection:

Invalid Selection
-----------------

There are times when selection fails under some configurations,
often this is noticeable in mesh *Edit Mode*,
selecting vertices/edges/faces where random elements are selected.

Internally Blender uses :term:`OpenGL` for selection,
so the graphics card driver is relied on giving correct results.

Possible Solutions:

Disable Anti-Aliasing (:term:`FSAA, Multi-Sampling<FSAA>`)
   This is by far the most common cause of selection issues.

   There are known problems with some graphics cards when using FSAA/multi-sampling.

   You can disable this option by:

   - Turning FSAA/multi-sampling off in your graphics card driver options.
   - Turning *Multi-Sampling* off in the :ref:`system preferences <preferences-system-multi_sampling>`.
Change Anti-Aliasing Sample Settings
   Depending on your OpenGL configuration,
   some specific sample settings may work, while others fail.

   Unfortunately finding working configuration involves trial & error testing.
Upgrade OpenGL Driver
   As with any OpenGL related issues, using recent drivers can resolve problems.

   However it should be noted that this is a fairly common problem and remains unresolved with many drivers.
