manual/modeling/objects/duplication/introduction.rst, before:


***********
Duplication
***********

There are two types of duplication, being `Duplicate`_ and `Linked Duplicates`_ which supports instancing.


Instancing
==========

Each Blender object type (mesh, lamp, curve, camera *etc.*) is composed from two parts:
an *Object* and *Object Data* (sometimes abbreviated to *ObData*):

Object
   Holds information about the position, rotation and size of a particular element.
Object Data
   Holds everything else.
   For example:

   :Meshes: Store geometry, material list, vertex groups... etc.
   :Cameras: Store focal length, depth of field, sensor size... etc.

   Each object has a link to its associated object data, and a single object data may be shared by many objects.


Duplicate
=========

.. admonition:: Reference
   :class: refbox

   | Mode:     *Edit* and *Object* modes
   | Menu:     *Object* --> *Duplicate*
   | Hotkey:   :kbd:`Shift-D`


This will create a visually-identical copy of the selected object(s). The copy is created at
the same position as the original object and you are automatically placed in *Grab*
mode. Reference (*Duplicate Example*) for the discussions below.

This copy is a new object, which **shares** some data-blocks with the original object
(by default, all the Materials, Textures, and Ipos), but which has copied others,
like the mesh, for example.
This is why this form of duplication is sometimes called "shallow link",
because not all data-blocks are shared; some of them are "hard copied"!

Note that you can choose which types of data-block will be linked or copied when duplicating:
in the *User Preferences* ' (available in the *File* menu)
*Editing* "tab", activate those types of data-blocks you want to really copy in the
*Duplicate Data* list - the others will just be linked.


Examples
--------

.. figure:: /images/Modeling-Duplicate-Example.jpg
   :width: 620px

   The mesh ``Cone.006`` of object ``Cone.002`` is being edited.
   The mesh's Unique data-block ID name is highlighted in the Outliner.


The cone in the middle has been (1) link duplicated to the left and (2)
duplicated to the right.

- The duplicated right cone is being edited, the original cone in the middle remains unchanged.
  The mesh data has been copied, not linked.
- Likewise, if the right cone is edited in object mode, the original cone remains unchanged.
  The new object's transform properties or data-block is a copy, not linked.
- When the right cone was duplicated, it inherited the material of the middle cone.
  The material properties were linked, not copied.

See above if you want separate copies of the data-blocks normally linked.


Linked Duplicates
=================

.. admonition:: Reference
   :class: refbox

   | Mode:     *Object* mode
   | Menu:     *Object* --> *Duplicate Linked*
   | Hotkey:   :kbd:`Alt-D`


You also have the choice of creating a *Linked Duplicate* rather than a *Duplicate*;
this is called a deep link.
This will create a new object with **all** of its data linked to the original object.
If you modify one of the linked objects in *Edit mode*,
all linked copies are modified. Transform properties (object data-blocks) still remain copies,
not links, so you still can rotate, scale, and move freely without affecting the other copy.
Reference (*Duplicate Example*) for the discussions below.

.. hint::

   If you want to make changes to an object in the new linked duplicate independently of the original object,
   you will have to manually make the object a "single-user" copy by
   :kbd:`LMB` the number in the *Object Data* panel of the Properties Window.


   .. figure:: /images/Interface-Scenes-mk_singleuser.jpg
      :align: center

Examples
--------

.. figure:: /images/Modelling-Duplicate-Linked-Example.jpg
   :width: 620px

   The object ``Cone.001`` was linked duplicated.
   Though both these cones are separate objects with unique names,
   the single mesh named Cone, highlighted in the Outliner, is shared by both.


The left cone is a *Linked Duplicate* of the middle cone (using :kbd:`Alt-D`).

- As a vertex is moved in *Edit mode* in one object, the same vertex is moved in the original cone as well.
  The mesh data are links, not copies.
- In contrast, if one of these two cones is rotated or rescaled in object mode, the other remains unchanged.
  The transform properties are copied, not linked.
- As in the previous example, the newly created cone has inherited the material of the original cone.
  The material properties are linked, not copied.

A common table has a top and four legs. Model one leg,
and then make linked duplicates three times for each of the remaining legs.
If you later make a change to the mesh, all the legs will still match.
Linked duplicates also apply to a set of drinking glasses,
wheels on a car... anywhere there is repetition or symmetry.


Procedural Duplication
======================

.. admonition:: Reference
   :class: refbox

   | Mode:     *Object mode* and *Edit mode*
   | Panel:    *Object settings*


There are currently four ways in Blender to procedurally duplicate objects.
These options are located in the *Object* menu.

:doc:`Verts </modeling/objects/duplication/dupliverts>`
   This creates an instance of all children of this object on each vertex (for mesh objects only).
:doc:`Faces </modeling/objects/duplication/duplifaces>`
   This creates an instance of all children of this object on each face (for mesh objects only).
:doc:`Group </modeling/objects/duplication/dupligroup>`
   This creates an instance of the group with the transformation of the object.
   Group duplicators can be animated using actions,
   or can get a :ref:`Proxy <object-proxy>`.
:doc:`Frames </modeling/objects/duplication/dupliframes>`
   For animated objects, this creates an instance on every frame.
   As you'll see on this topic's subpage,
   this is also a *very* powerful technique for arranging objects and for modeling them.


Linked Library Duplication
==========================

.. admonition:: Reference
   :class: refbox

   | Menu:     *File* --> *Link Append*
   | Hotkey:   :kbd:`Shift-F1`


:doc:`Linked Libraries </data_system/linked_libraries>` :Linked Libraries are also a form of duplication.
Any object or data-block in other ``.blend`` files can be reused in the current file.


.. hint::
   - If you want transform properties (i.e. object data-blocks) to be "linked",
     see the page on :doc:`parenting </modeling/objects/groups_and_parenting>`.
   - Material Transparency will not display when instancing dupli-groups;
     this is a known limitation of Blender's view-port.

Commit message:

Move object/scene linking into duplication doc.
git-svn-id: https://svn.blender.org/svnroot/bf-manual/trunk/blender_docs@848 c4de1f47-6596-e411-a384-0024e86c2797

manual/modeling/objects/duplication/introduction.rst, after:


***********
Duplication
***********

There are two types of duplication, being `Duplicate`_ and `Linked Duplicates`_ which supports instancing.


Instancing
==========

Each Blender object type (mesh, lamp, curve, camera *etc.*) is composed from two parts:
an *Object* and *Object Data* (sometimes abbreviated to *ObData*):

Object
   Holds information about the position, rotation and size of a particular element.
Object Data
   Holds everything else.
   For example:

   :Meshes: Store geometry, material list, vertex groups... etc.
   :Cameras: Store focal length, depth of field, sensor size... etc.

   Each object has a link to its associated object data, and a single object data may be shared by many objects.


Duplicate
=========

.. admonition:: Reference
   :class: refbox

   | Mode:     *Edit* and *Object* modes
   | Menu:     *Object* --> *Duplicate*
   | Hotkey:   :kbd:`Shift-D`


This will create a visually-identical copy of the selected object(s). The copy is created at
the same position as the original object and you are automatically placed in *Grab*
mode. Reference (*Duplicate Example*) for the discussions below.

This copy is a new object, which **shares** some data-blocks with the original object
(by default, all the Materials, Textures, and Ipos), but which has copied others,
like the mesh, for example.
This is why this form of duplication is sometimes called "shallow link",
because not all data-blocks are shared; some of them are "hard copied"!

Note that you can choose which types of data-block will be linked or copied when duplicating:
in the *User Preferences* ' (available in the *File* menu)
*Editing* "tab", activate those types of data-blocks you want to really copy in the
*Duplicate Data* list - the others will just be linked.


Examples
--------

.. figure:: /images/Modeling-Duplicate-Example.jpg
   :width: 620px

   The mesh ``Cone.006`` of object ``Cone.002`` is being edited.
   The mesh's Unique data-block ID name is highlighted in the Outliner.


The cone in the middle has been (1) link duplicated to the left and (2)
duplicated to the right.

- The duplicated right cone is being edited, the original cone in the middle remains unchanged.
  The mesh data has been copied, not linked.
- Likewise, if the right cone is edited in object mode, the original cone remains unchanged.
  The new object's transform properties or data-block is a copy, not linked.
- When the right cone was duplicated, it inherited the material of the middle cone.
  The material properties were linked, not copied.

See above if you want separate copies of the data-blocks normally linked.


Linked Duplicates
=================

.. admonition:: Reference
   :class: refbox

   | Mode:     *Object* mode
   | Menu:     *Object* --> *Duplicate Linked*
   | Hotkey:   :kbd:`Alt-D`


You also have the choice of creating a *Linked Duplicate* rather than a *Duplicate*;
this is called a deep link.
This will create a new object with **all** of its data linked to the original object.
If you modify one of the linked objects in *Edit mode*,
all linked copies are modified. Transform properties (object data-blocks) still remain copies,
not links, so you still can rotate, scale, and move freely without affecting the other copy.
Reference (*Duplicate Example*) for the discussions below.

.. hint::

   If you want to make changes to an object in the new linked duplicate independently of the original object,
   you will have to manually make the object a "single-user" copy by
   :kbd:`LMB` the number in the *Object Data* panel of the Properties Window.


   .. figure:: /images/Interface-Scenes-mk_singleuser.jpg
      :align: center

Examples
--------

.. figure:: /images/Modelling-Duplicate-Linked-Example.jpg
   :width: 620px

   The object ``Cone.001`` was linked duplicated.
   Though both these cones are separate objects with unique names,
   the single mesh named Cone, highlighted in the Outliner, is shared by both.


The left cone is a *Linked Duplicate* of the middle cone (using :kbd:`Alt-D`).

- As a vertex is moved in *Edit mode* in one object, the same vertex is moved in the original cone as well.
  The mesh data are links, not copies.
- In contrast, if one of these two cones is rotated or rescaled in object mode, the other remains unchanged.
  The transform properties are copied, not linked.
- As in the previous example, the newly created cone has inherited the material of the original cone.
  The material properties are linked, not copied.

A common table has a top and four legs. Model one leg,
and then make linked duplicates three times for each of the remaining legs.
If you later make a change to the mesh, all the legs will still match.
Linked duplicates also apply to a set of drinking glasses,
wheels on a car... anywhere there is repetition or symmetry.


Procedural Duplication
======================

.. admonition:: Reference
   :class: refbox

   | Mode:     *Object mode* and *Edit mode*
   | Panel:    *Object settings*


There are currently four ways in Blender to procedurally duplicate objects.
These options are located in the *Object* menu.

:doc:`Verts </modeling/objects/duplication/dupliverts>`
   This creates an instance of all children of this object on each vertex (for mesh objects only).
:doc:`Faces </modeling/objects/duplication/duplifaces>`
   This creates an instance of all children of this object on each face (for mesh objects only).
:doc:`Group </modeling/objects/duplication/dupligroup>`
   This creates an instance of the group with the transformation of the object.
   Group duplicators can be animated using actions,
   or can get a :ref:`Proxy <object-proxy>`.
:doc:`Frames </modeling/objects/duplication/dupliframes>`
   For animated objects, this creates an instance on every frame.
   As you'll see on this topic's subpage,
   this is also a *very* powerful technique for arranging objects and for modeling them.


Copying & Linking Objects Between Scenes
========================================

Sometimes you may want to link or copy objects between scenes. This is possible by first selecting objects you want
to link or copy and then using the *Make Links* and *Make Single User* items found in
*Object* menu in the 3D viewport header. Use *Make Links* to make links between scenes.
To make a plain copy, you first make a link and then use *Make Single User* to make a stand-alone copy of
the object in your current scene.
Further information on working with scenes can be found :doc:`here </data_system/scenes>`.


Linked Library Duplication
==========================

.. admonition:: Reference
   :class: refbox

   | Menu:     *File* --> *Link Append*
   | Hotkey:   :kbd:`Shift-F1`


:doc:`Linked Libraries </data_system/linked_libraries>` :Linked Libraries are also a form of duplication.
Any object or data-block in other ``.blend`` files can be reused in the current file.


.. hint::
   - If you want transform properties (i.e. object data-blocks) to be "linked",
     see the page on :doc:`parenting </modeling/objects/groups_and_parenting>`.
   - Material Transparency will not display when instancing dupli-groups;
     this is a known limitation of Blender's view-port.
