manual/about/translations.rst, before:


************
Translations
************

.. note::

   At time of writing we are setting up translations workflow,
   this page shows the initial steps for translators to get started.


On this page French (``fr``) is used for examples,
however it can be replaced with other
`languages codes <http://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/manual/html_node/Usual-Language-Codes.html>`__.

To see which languages are currently available, you can browse the repository:
http://developer.blender.org/diffusion/BMT/browse/trunk/blender_docs/locale


Installing Dependencies
=======================

For translations we use Sphinx's internationalization package.
However this is not included with Sphinx and needs to be installed.

.. code-block:: sh

   pip install sphinx-intl


Downloading the Repository
==========================

First of all, its assumed that you have the manual already building.

From the directory containing your checkout of the manual run the following command.

.. note::

   Be sure to change the ``/fr`` suffixes to the language you're translating!

   You can remove the suffix to checkout all languages too, however this will be a much larger download.

.. code-block:: sh

   svn checkout https://svn.blender.org/svnroot/bf-manual-translations/trunk/blender_docs/locale/fr locale/fr

This will create a ``locale/fr`` subdirectory.

Now you can edit the PO translation files,
eg:

Original RST File
   ``manual/getting_started/about_blender/introduction.rst``
Generated PO File
   ``locale/fr/LC_MESSAGES/getting_started/about_blender/introduction.po``

The modified ``.po`` files can be edited and committed back to svn.


Building with Translations
==========================

.. note::

   This is quite involved, and it may not be expected that translators have to build the translated manual locally.

   Instead we may rely on the docs being build automatically online.

----

To creates the ``.mo`` files (needed for building translation).

.. code-block:: sh

   sphinx-intl build

Now you can build the manual with the translation applied.

.. code-block:: sh

   make -e SPHINXOPTS="-D language='fr'"

If you're on ms-windows and don't have ``make``, run:

.. code-block:: sh

   sphinx-build -b html -D language='fr' ./manual ./build/html

Now you will have a build of the manual with translations applied.


Updating PO Files
-----------------

As the original manual changes, the templates will need updating.

This can be done as follows.

.. code-block:: sh

   make gettext
   sphinx-intl update -p build/locale -l fr

The updated templates can then be committed to svn.

*TODO: document how to handle files being added/removed/moved.*


----

.. note::

   See the `translation design task <https://developer.blender.org/T43083>`__
   for discussion on the proposed process.

.. seealso::

   Instructions on this page are based on
   `Sphinx Intl documentation <http://sphinx-doc.org/latest/intl.html>`__

Commit message:

Note that automatic builds are now available.
git-svn-id: https://svn.blender.org/svnroot/bf-manual/trunk/blender_docs@989 c4de1f47-6596-e411-a384-0024e86c2797

manual/about/translations.rst, after:


************
Translations
************

.. note::

   At time of writing we are setting up translations workflow,
   this page shows the initial steps for translators to get started.


On this page French (``fr``) is used for examples,
however it can be replaced with other
`languages codes <http://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/manual/html_node/Usual-Language-Codes.html>`__.

To see which languages are currently available, you can browse the repository:
http://developer.blender.org/diffusion/BMT/browse/trunk/blender_docs/locale


Installing Dependencies
=======================

For translations we use Sphinx's internationalization package.
However this is not included with Sphinx and needs to be installed.

.. code-block:: sh

   pip install sphinx-intl


Downloading the Repository
==========================

First of all, its assumed that you have the manual already building.

From the directory containing your checkout of the manual run the following command.

.. note::

   Be sure to change the ``/fr`` suffixes to the language you're translating!

   You can remove the suffix to checkout all languages too, however this will be a much larger download.

.. code-block:: sh

   svn checkout https://svn.blender.org/svnroot/bf-manual-translations/trunk/blender_docs/locale/fr locale/fr

This will create a ``locale/fr`` subdirectory.

Now you can edit the PO translation files,
eg:

Original RST File
   ``manual/getting_started/about_blender/introduction.rst``
Generated PO File
   ``locale/fr/LC_MESSAGES/getting_started/about_blender/introduction.po``

The modified ``.po`` files can be edited and committed back to svn.


Building with Translations
==========================

.. note::

   This is optional, translations are automatically built online, eg:
   http://www.blender.org/manual/fr/

   This is quite involved,
   so its not be expected that translators should be doing their own builds locally.

----

To creates the ``.mo`` files (needed for building translation).

.. code-block:: sh

   sphinx-intl build

Now you can build the manual with the translation applied.

.. code-block:: sh

   make -e SPHINXOPTS="-D language='fr'"

If you're on ms-windows and don't have ``make``, run:

.. code-block:: sh

   sphinx-build -b html -D language='fr' ./manual ./build/html

Now you will have a build of the manual with translations applied.


Updating PO Files
-----------------

As the original manual changes, the templates will need updating.

This can be done as follows.

.. code-block:: sh

   make gettext
   sphinx-intl update -p build/locale -l fr

The updated templates can then be committed to svn.

*TODO: document how to handle files being added/removed/moved.*


----

.. note::

   See the `translation design task <https://developer.blender.org/T43083>`__
   for discussion on the proposed process.

.. seealso::

   Instructions on this page are based on
   `Sphinx Intl documentation <http://sphinx-doc.org/latest/intl.html>`__
