manual/modeling/meshes/selecting/introduction.rst, before:


..    TODO/Review: {{review|}} .


*************************
Selecting Mesh Components
*************************

There are many ways to select elements, and it depends on what *Mesh Select Mode*
you are in as to what selection tools are available.
First we will go through these modes and after that a look is taken at basic selection tools.


Selection Mode
==============

Select Mode Header Widgets
--------------------------

.. figure:: /images/Modeling-Meshes-Selection-mode-buttons.jpg
   :width: 190px

   Edit mode selection buttons


In *Edit mode* there are three different selection modes.
You can enter the different modes by selecting one of the three buttons in the toolbar.

Vertices
   In this mode vertices are drawn as points.

   Selected vertices are drawn in orange, unselected vertices in black,
   and the active or last selected vertex in white.
Edges
   In this mode the vertices are not drawn.

   Instead the selected edges are drawn in orange,
   unselected edges black, and the active or last selected edge in white.
Faces
   In this mode the faces are drawn with a selection point in the middle which is used for selecting a face.

   Selected faces and their selection point are drawn in orange,
   unselected faces are drawn in black, and the active or last selected face is highlighted in white.

.. hint::

   Using these buttons you can enable multiple *Selection Modes* at once
   :kbd:`Shift-LMB` clicking the buttons.

   This allows you to quickly select Vertices/Edges/Faces,
   without first having to switch modes.

Almost all tools are available in all three mesh selection modes.
So you can *Rotate*, *Scale*, *Extrude*, etc. in all modes.
Of course rotating and scaling a *single* vertex will not do anything useful
*(without setting the pivot point to another location)*,
so some tools are more or less applicable in some modes.


Select Mode Pop-up
------------------

.. admonition:: Reference
   :class: refbox

   | Mode:     *Edit* mode
   | Hotkey:   :kbd:`Ctrl-Tab`


.. figure:: /images/Modeling-Meshes-Selection-mode.jpg
   :width: 152px

   Mesh Select Mode menu


You can also choose a selection mode with the pop-up menu

:menuselection:`Select Mode --> Vertices`
   Press :kbd:`Ctrl-Tab` and select *Vertices* from the pop-up menu, or press :kbd:`Ctrl-Tab`:kbd:`1`.
:menuselection:`Select Mode --> Edges`
   Press :kbd:`Ctrl-Tab` and select *Edges* from the pop-up menu, or press :kbd:`Ctrl-Tab`:kbd:`2`.
:menuselection:`Select Mode --> Faces`
   Press :kbd:`Ctrl-Tab` and select *Faces* from the pop-up menu, or press :kbd:`Ctrl-Tab`:kbd:`3`.


Switching Select Mode
---------------------

When switching modes in an "ascendant" way (i.e. from simpler to more complex), from
*Vertices* to *Edges* and from *Edges* to *Faces*,
the selected parts will still be selected if they form a complete element in the new mode.

For example, if all four edges in a face are selected,
switching from *Edges* mode to *Faces* mode will keep the face selected.
All selected parts that do not form a complete set in the new mode will be unselected.

Hence, switching in a "descendant" way (i.e. from more complex to simpler),
all elements defining the "high-level" element (like a face) will be selected
(the four vertices or edges of a quadrangle, for example).

By holding :kbd:`Ctrl` when selecting a higher selection mode,
all elements touching the current selection will be added,
even if the selection does not form a complete higher element.

See (*Vertices* *mode example*), (*Edges* *mode example*),
(*Faces* *mode example*) and (*Mixed mode example*)
for examples of the different modes.


.. list-table::

   * - .. figure:: /images/EditModeVerticeModeExample.jpg

          Vertices mode example.

     - .. figure:: /images/EditModeEdgeModeExample.jpg

          Edges mode example.

   * - .. figure:: /images/EditModeFaceModeExample.jpg

          Faces mode example.

     - .. figure:: /images/EditModeMixedModeExample.jpg

          Mixed mode example.


Selection Tools
===============

The select menu in edit mode contains tools for selecting components.
These are described in more detail in the following pages.

Border Select (:kbd:`B`)
   Enables a rectangular region for selection
Circle Select (:kbd:`C`)
   Enables a circular shaped region for selection
(De)select All :kbd:`A`
   Select all or none of the mesh components.
Invert Selection (:kbd:`Ctrl-I`)
   Selects all geometry that are not selected, and deselect currently selected components.
Select Random
   Selects a random group of vertices, edges, or faces, based on a percentage value.
Checker Deselect
   Deselect alternating faces, to create a checker like pattern.
Select Sharp Edges
   This option will select all edges that are between two faces forming an angle less than a given value,
   which is asked you *via* a small pop-up dialog.
   The lower is this angle limit, the sharper will be the selected edges.
   At ``180``, **all** :term:`manifold` edges will be selected.
Linked Flat Faces (:kbd:`Ctrl-Shift-Alt-F`)
   Select connected faces based on a threshold of the angle between them.
   This is useful for selecting faces that are planar.
Interior Faces
   Select faces where all edges have more than 2 faces.
Side of Active
   Selects all data on the mesh in a single axis
Select Faces by Sides
   Selects all faces that have a specified number of edges.
Non Manifold (:kbd:`Ctrl-Shift-Alt-M`)
   Selects :term:`non-manifold` geometry. See :doc:`Mesh Advanced Selection </modeling/meshes/selecting/advanced>`.
Loose
   Select all vertices or edges that do not form part of a face.
Similar (:kbd:`Shift-G`)
   Select geometry based on how similar certain properties are to it.

   .. note::

      The items shown in the menu depend on the `Selection Mode`_.
More :kbd:`Ctrl-NumpadPlus`
   Propagates selection by adding geometry that are adjacent to selected elements.
Less :kbd:`Ctrl-NumpadMinus`
   Deselects geometry that form the bounds of the current selection
Mirror
   Select mesh items at the mirrored location.
Pick Linked (:kbd:`L`)
   Selects all geometry connected to the geometry under the cursor.
Linked (:kbd:`Ctrl-L`)
   Selects all geometry that are connected to the current selection.
Vertex Path
   Selects a vertex path between two selected vertices
Edge Loop
   Selects a loop of edges from a selected edge
Edge Ring
   Selects edges parallel to a selected edge in the same ring of faces
Loop Inner-Region
   Converts a closed selection of edges to the region of faces it encloses
Boundary Loop
   Converts a selection of faces to the ring of edges enclosing it

Commit message:

Further minor changes to select mode page
Document Ctrl / Shift modifier, give own headings.


git-svn-id: https://svn.blender.org/svnroot/bf-manual/trunk/blender_docs@801 c4de1f47-6596-e411-a384-0024e86c2797

manual/modeling/meshes/selecting/introduction.rst, after:


..    TODO/Review: {{review|}} .


*************************
Selecting Mesh Components
*************************

There are many ways to select elements, and it depends on what *Mesh Select Mode*
you are in as to what selection tools are available.
First we will go through these modes and after that a look is taken at basic selection tools.


Selection Mode
==============

Select Mode Header Widgets
--------------------------

.. figure:: /images/Modeling-Meshes-Selection-mode-buttons.jpg
   :width: 190px

   Edit mode selection buttons


In *Edit mode* there are three different selection modes.
You can enter the different modes by selecting one of the three buttons in the toolbar.

Vertices
   In this mode vertices are drawn as points.

   Selected vertices are drawn in orange, unselected vertices in black,
   and the active or last selected vertex in white.
Edges
   In this mode the vertices are not drawn.

   Instead the selected edges are drawn in orange,
   unselected edges black, and the active or last selected edge in white.
Faces
   In this mode the faces are drawn with a selection point in the middle which is used for selecting a face.

   Selected faces and their selection point are drawn in orange,
   unselected faces are drawn in black, and the active or last selected face is highlighted in white.

When using these button, you can make use of modifier keys, see: `Switching Select Mode`_.

Almost all tools are available in all three mesh selection modes.
So you can *Rotate*, *Scale*, *Extrude*, etc. in all modes.
Of course rotating and scaling a *single* vertex will not do anything useful
*(without setting the pivot point to another location)*,
so some tools are more or less applicable in some modes.


Select Mode Pop-up
------------------

.. admonition:: Reference
   :class: refbox

   | Mode:     *Edit* mode
   | Hotkey:   :kbd:`Ctrl-Tab`


.. figure:: /images/Modeling-Meshes-Selection-mode.jpg
   :align: right

   Mesh Select Mode menu

You can choose a selection mode with the pop-up menu:

:menuselection:`Select Mode --> Vertices`
   Press :kbd:`Ctrl-Tab` and select *Vertices* from the pop-up menu, or press :kbd:`Ctrl-Tab`:kbd:`1`.
:menuselection:`Select Mode --> Edges`
   Press :kbd:`Ctrl-Tab` and select *Edges* from the pop-up menu, or press :kbd:`Ctrl-Tab`:kbd:`2`.
:menuselection:`Select Mode --> Faces`
   Press :kbd:`Ctrl-Tab` and select *Faces* from the pop-up menu, or press :kbd:`Ctrl-Tab`:kbd:`3`.


When using this menu, you can make use of modifier keys, see: `Switching Select Mode`_.


Switching Select Mode
---------------------

When switching modes in an "ascendant" way (i.e. from simpler to more complex), from
*Vertices* to *Edges* and from *Edges* to *Faces*,
the selected parts will still be selected if they form a complete element in the new mode.

For example, if all four edges in a face are selected,
switching from *Edges* mode to *Faces* mode will keep the face selected.
All selected parts that do not form a complete set in the new mode will be unselected.

Hence, switching in a "descendant" way (i.e. from more complex to simpler),
all elements defining the "high-level" element (like a face) will be selected
(the four vertices or edges of a quadrangle, for example).

Multiple Selection Modes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

By holding :kbd:`Shift-LMB` when selecting a selection mode,
you can enable multiple *Selection Modes* at once.

This allows you to quickly select Vertices/Edges/Faces,
without first having to switch modes.

Expanding Selection Modes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

By holding :kbd:`Ctrl` when selecting a higher selection mode,
all elements touching the current selection will be added,
even if the selection does not form a complete higher element.

See (*Vertices* *mode example*), (*Edges* *mode example*),
(*Faces* *mode example*) and (*Mixed mode example*)
for examples of the different modes.

.. list-table::

   * - .. figure:: /images/EditModeVerticeModeExample.jpg

          Vertices mode example.

     - .. figure:: /images/EditModeEdgeModeExample.jpg

          Edges mode example.

   * - .. figure:: /images/EditModeFaceModeExample.jpg

          Faces mode example.

     - .. figure:: /images/EditModeMixedModeExample.jpg

          Mixed mode example.


Selection Tools
===============

The select menu in edit mode contains tools for selecting components.
These are described in more detail in the following pages.

Border Select (:kbd:`B`)
   Enables a rectangular region for selection
Circle Select (:kbd:`C`)
   Enables a circular shaped region for selection
(De)select All :kbd:`A`
   Select all or none of the mesh components.
Invert Selection (:kbd:`Ctrl-I`)
   Selects all geometry that are not selected, and deselect currently selected components.
Select Random
   Selects a random group of vertices, edges, or faces, based on a percentage value.
Checker Deselect
   Deselect alternating faces, to create a checker like pattern.
Select Sharp Edges
   This option will select all edges that are between two faces forming an angle less than a given value,
   which is asked you *via* a small pop-up dialog.
   The lower is this angle limit, the sharper will be the selected edges.
   At ``180``, **all** :term:`manifold` edges will be selected.
Linked Flat Faces (:kbd:`Ctrl-Shift-Alt-F`)
   Select connected faces based on a threshold of the angle between them.
   This is useful for selecting faces that are planar.
Interior Faces
   Select faces where all edges have more than 2 faces.
Side of Active
   Selects all data on the mesh in a single axis
Select Faces by Sides
   Selects all faces that have a specified number of edges.
Non Manifold (:kbd:`Ctrl-Shift-Alt-M`)
   Selects :term:`non-manifold` geometry. See :doc:`Mesh Advanced Selection </modeling/meshes/selecting/advanced>`.
Loose
   Select all vertices or edges that do not form part of a face.
Similar (:kbd:`Shift-G`)
   Select geometry based on how similar certain properties are to it.

   .. note::

      The items shown in the menu depend on the `Selection Mode`_.
More :kbd:`Ctrl-NumpadPlus`
   Propagates selection by adding geometry that are adjacent to selected elements.
Less :kbd:`Ctrl-NumpadMinus`
   Deselects geometry that form the bounds of the current selection
Mirror
   Select mesh items at the mirrored location.
Pick Linked (:kbd:`L`)
   Selects all geometry connected to the geometry under the cursor.
Linked (:kbd:`Ctrl-L`)
   Selects all geometry that are connected to the current selection.
Vertex Path
   Selects a vertex path between two selected vertices
Edge Loop
   Selects a loop of edges from a selected edge
Edge Ring
   Selects edges parallel to a selected edge in the same ring of faces
Loop Inner-Region
   Converts a closed selection of edges to the region of faces it encloses
Boundary Loop
   Converts a selection of faces to the ring of edges enclosing it
