manual/getting_started/basics/interface/extended_controls.rst, before:


*****************
Extended Controls
*****************

This page documents some of the more involved interface controls.


Operator Search Menu
====================

.. figure:: /images/Interface-Menus-SpacebarMenu25.jpg
   :align: right

   The [Space]-menu


A menu with access to all *Blender* commands is available by pressing
:kbd:`Spacebar`. Simply start typing the name of the command you want to refine the list.
When the list is sufficiently narrowed, :kbd:`LMB` on the desired command or navigate
with :kbd:`Down` and :kbd:`Up`, activate it by pressing :kbd:`Return`.


Color Picker
============

All of the Color picker types have the common *RGB*, *HSV* and *Hex* options to show values.

Blender uses ``0 - 1.0`` values to express colors for *RGB* and *HSV* values.

Some colors also define an alpha value (*A*), below the color sliders.

You can optionally use hexidecimal *(Hex)* values,
expressed as (``RRGGBB``), a common way to represent colors for HTML.

For more information about how to select the type of color picker,
see: :doc:`System </preferences/system>` preferences page.


.. note:: Blender corrects Gamma by default

   for more information about how to disable Gamma correction in Blender,
   see: :doc:`Color Management and Exposure </render/post_process/cm_and_exposure>` page.


.. figure:: /images/Preferences_System_Color_Picker_Circle.jpg

   Fig. 2 - Color Picker - Circle


   Circle (Default)
      A full gamut of colors ranging from center to the borders is always shown; center is a mix of the colors.
      Brightness is adjusted with the right bar, from top to bottom.
      For operations that are capable of using Alpha, another slider is added at the bottom of the color picker.
      See Fig. 2 - Color Picker - Circle


.. figure:: /images/Preferences_System_Color_Picker_HS_PLUS_V.jpg

   Fig. 3 - Color Picker
   Square (HS + V)


   Square (HS + V)
      Hue, Saturation plus Value **-->** A full gamut of colors is always shown.
      Brightness is subtracted from the
      base color chosen on the square of the color picker moving the slider to the left.
      For operations that are capable of using Alpha,
      another slider is added at the bottom of the color picker.
      See Fig. 3 - Color Picker - Square (HS + V)


.. figure:: /images/Preferences_System_Color_Picker_SV_PLUS_H.jpg

   Fig. 4 - Color Picker
   Square (SV + H)


   Square (SV + H)
      Saturation, Value plus Hue **-->** A full Gamut of colors is
      always shown at the bar in the middle of the color picker.
      Colors are adjusted using the a range of brightness of the
      base color chosen at the color bar in the middle of the picker.
      For operations that are capable of using Alpha,
      another slider is added at the bottom of the color picker.
      See Fig. 4 - Color Picker - Square (SV + H)


.. figure:: /images/Preferences_System_Color_Picker_HV_PLUS_S.jpg

   Fig. 5 - Color Picker
   Square (HV + S)


   Square (HV + S)
      Hue, Value and Saturation *-->** A full gamut of colors is always shown at the square of the color picker.
      Brightness is added to the base color chosen on the square of the color picker moving the slider to the left.
      For operations that are capable of using Alpha, another slider is added at the bottom of the color picker.
      See Fig. 5 - Color Picker - Square (HV + S)


- Use :kbd:`Wheel` to change overall brightness.
- Color sliders don't have a default value; the last value before any changes is used instead.


Eye Dropper
-----------

The eye dropper allows you to sample from anywhere in the Blender window.

The eyedropper can be use to select different kinds of data.

Color
   This is the most common usage.
Objects / Object-Data
   This is used with object buttons such as parent, constraints or modifiers to
   select an object from the 3D view.
Camera Depth
   Number buttons effecting distance can also use the eye-dropper,
   this is most useful for camera depth of field.

- :kbd:`E` will activate the eye-dropper while hovering over a button.
- :kbd:`LMB` dragging will mix the colors you drag over which can help when sampling noisy imagery.
- :kbd:`Spacebar` resets and starts mixing the colors again.


Color Ramp
==========

.. list-table::

   * - .. figure:: /images/Interface-ColorBand-Before.jpg
          :width: 310px

          Colorband before

     - .. figure:: /images/Interface-ColorBand-After.jpg
          :width: 310px

          Colorband after


*Color Ramps* enables the user to specify a range of colors based on color stops.
Color stops are similar to a mark indicating where the exact chosen color should be.
The interval from each of the color stops added to the ramp is a result of the color interpolation and
chosen interpolation method. The available options for Color Ramps are:


Add (Button)
   Clicking on this button will add a stop to your custom weight paint map.
   The stops are added from the last selected stop to the next one, from left to right and
   they will be placed in the middle of both stops.


Delete (Button)
   Deletes the selected color stop from the list.


'F' (Button)
   Flips the color band, inverting the values of the custom weight paint range.


Numeric Field
   Whenever the user adds a color stop to the custom weight paint range, the color stop will receive an index.
   This field shows the indexes added (clicking in the arrows until the counter stops), and allows
   the user to select the color stop from the list. The selected color stop will be shown with a dashed line.


Interpolation Options
   Enables the user to choose from **4** types of calculations for the color interpolation for each color stop.
   Available options are:


   B-Spline
      Uses a *B-Spline* Interpolation for the color stops.
   Cardinal
      Uses a *Cardinal* Interpolation for the color stops.
   Linear
      Uses a *Linear* Interpolation for the color stops.
   Ease
      Uses a *Ease* Interpolation for the color stops.
   Constant
      Uses a *Constant* Interpolation for the color stops.


Position
   This slider controls the positioning of the selected color stop in the range.


Color Bar
   Opens a color Picker for the user to specify color and Alpha for the selected color stop.
   When a color is using Alpha, the Color Bar is then divided in two, with the left side
   showing the base color and the right side showing the color with the alpha value.


.. _curve-widget:

Curve Widget
============

.. figure:: /images/Material-Color-Node-Curves.jpg

   RGB Curves node


The *Curve Widget* is found in several places throughout Blender, such as:

- RGB Curves node
- Vector Curves node
- Paint/Sculpt brush falloff
- Color Management curves

The purpose of the *Curve Widget* is to allow the user to modify an input
(such as an image) in an intuitive manner by
smoothly adjusting the values up and down using the curve.

The input values are mapped to the X-axis of the graph, and the Y-axis is mapped to the output values.


Control Points
--------------

.. |delete-button| image:: /images/Material-Color-Node-Curves-Delpoints-Buticon.jpg

Like all curves in Blender, the curve of the *Curve Widget* is controlled using *control points*.

By default there are two control points: one at ``0.0, 0.0`` and one at ``1.0, 1.0``,
meaning the input is mapped directly to the output (unchanged).

To **move** a control point
   Simply click and drag it around.
To **add** a new control point
   Click anywhere on the curve where there is not already a control point.
To **remove** a control point
   select it and click the |delete-button| button at the top right.


Controls
--------

Above the curve graph is a row of controls. These are:


.. figure:: /images/Material-Vector-Node-Curves-Controls.jpg

   Node curve controls


Channel selector
   Allows to select appropriate curve channel.

   .. figure:: /images/Material-Vector-Node-Curves-Axes.jpg

      Curve channel selector

Zoom In
   Zoom into the center of the graph to show more details and provide more accurate control.
   To navigate around the curve while zoomed in, click and drag in an empty part of the graph.

Zoom Out
   Zoom out of the graph to show less details and view the graph as a whole.
   You cannot zoom out further than the clipping borders (see *Clipping* below).

Tools
   .. figure:: /images/Material-Color-Node-Curves-Tools.jpg

      Advanced tools for curve

   Reset View
      Resets view of the curve.
   Vector Handle
      Vector type of curve point's handle.
   Auto Handle
      Automatic type of curve point's handle.
   Extend Horizontal
      Extends the curve horizontal.
   Extend Extrapolated
      Extends the curve extrapolated.
   Reset Curve
      Resets the curve in default (removes all added curve's points).
Clipping
   Enable/disable clipping and set the values to clip to.

Delete
   Remove the selected control point.


List View
=========

.. Document list view - vertex groups, UV Layers, they have search filtering, rename, scroll, resize etc.

.. figure:: /images/extended_controls_list_view_filter.png

At the bottom of a list view (like the ones found in the object data properties)
there are controls for filtering and sorting and resizing.


Rename
   By pressing (:kbd:`Ctrl`, :kbd:`LMB`) over an item's name, you can edit the text-field.
   This can also be achieved by double clicking.

Resize
   The list view can be resized to show more or less items.
   Hover the mouse over the handle then click and drag the handle to expand or shrink the list.

Filter
   Click the *Show filtering options* button to toggle filter option buttons.

   Type part of a list item's name in the filter text box to filter items by part of their name.

   Filter Include
      When the magnifying glass icon has a ``+`` sign then only items that match the text will be displayed.
   Filter Exclude
      When the magnifying glass icon has a ``-`` sign then only items that do not match text will be displayed.

Sort
   Sort list items.

   Alphabetical
      This button switches between alphabetical and non-alphabetical ordering.

   Inverse
      Sort objects in ascending or descending order. This also applies to alphabetical sorting, if selected.

Commit message:

Document shorthand hex color input
git-svn-id: https://svn.blender.org/svnroot/bf-manual/trunk/blender_docs@583 c4de1f47-6596-e411-a384-0024e86c2797

manual/getting_started/basics/interface/extended_controls.rst, after:


*****************
Extended Controls
*****************

This page documents some of the more involved interface controls.


Operator Search Menu
====================

.. figure:: /images/Interface-Menus-SpacebarMenu25.jpg
   :align: right

   The [Space]-menu


A menu with access to all *Blender* commands is available by pressing
:kbd:`Spacebar`. Simply start typing the name of the command you want to refine the list.
When the list is sufficiently narrowed, :kbd:`LMB` on the desired command or navigate
with :kbd:`Down` and :kbd:`Up`, activate it by pressing :kbd:`Return`.


Color Picker
============

All of the Color picker types have the common *RGB*, *HSV* and *Hex* options to show values.

Blender uses ``0 - 1.0`` values to express colors for *RGB* and *HSV* values.

Some colors also define an alpha value (*A*), below the color sliders.

.. note:: Blender corrects Gamma by default

   for more information about how to disable Gamma correction in Blender,
   see: :doc:`Color Management and Exposure </render/post_process/cm_and_exposure>` page.



Color Picker Types
------------------

The default color picker type can be selected in the user preferences,
see: :doc:`System </preferences/system>`.




.. figure:: /images/Preferences_System_Color_Picker_Circle.jpg

   Fig. 2 - Color Picker - Circle


   Circle (Default)
      A full gamut of colors ranging from center to the borders is always shown; center is a mix of the colors.
      Brightness is adjusted with the right bar, from top to bottom.
      For operations that are capable of using Alpha, another slider is added at the bottom of the color picker.
      See Fig. 2 - Color Picker - Circle


.. figure:: /images/Preferences_System_Color_Picker_HS_PLUS_V.jpg

   Fig. 3 - Color Picker
   Square (HS + V)


   Square (HS + V)
      Hue, Saturation plus Value **-->** A full gamut of colors is always shown.
      Brightness is subtracted from the
      base color chosen on the square of the color picker moving the slider to the left.
      For operations that are capable of using Alpha,
      another slider is added at the bottom of the color picker.
      See Fig. 3 - Color Picker - Square (HS + V)


.. figure:: /images/Preferences_System_Color_Picker_SV_PLUS_H.jpg

   Fig. 4 - Color Picker
   Square (SV + H)


   Square (SV + H)
      Saturation, Value plus Hue **-->** A full Gamut of colors is
      always shown at the bar in the middle of the color picker.
      Colors are adjusted using the a range of brightness of the
      base color chosen at the color bar in the middle of the picker.
      For operations that are capable of using Alpha,
      another slider is added at the bottom of the color picker.
      See Fig. 4 - Color Picker - Square (SV + H)


.. figure:: /images/Preferences_System_Color_Picker_HV_PLUS_S.jpg

   Fig. 5 - Color Picker
   Square (HV + S)


   Square (HV + S)
      Hue, Value and Saturation **-->** A full gamut of colors is always shown at the square of the color picker.
      Brightness is added to the base color chosen on the square of the color picker moving the slider to the left.
      For operations that are capable of using Alpha, another slider is added at the bottom of the color picker.
      See Fig. 5 - Color Picker - Square (HV + S)


- Use :kbd:`Wheel` to change overall brightness.
- Color sliders don't have a default value; the last value before any changes is used instead.


Hexidecimal Colors
------------------

You can optionally use hexidecimal *(Hex)* values,
expressed as (``RRGGBB``), a common way to represent colors for HTML
and useful quicky copy/paste colors between applications.

Shorthand hex colors are also supported (``RGB``),
so dark-yellow (``ffcc00``), can be written as ``fc0``.


Eye Dropper
-----------

The eye dropper allows you to sample from anywhere in the Blender window.

The eyedropper can be use to select different kinds of data.

Color
   This is the most common usage.
Objects / Object-Data
   This is used with object buttons such as parent, constraints or modifiers to
   select an object from the 3D view.
Camera Depth
   Number buttons effecting distance can also use the eye-dropper,
   this is most useful for camera depth of field.

- :kbd:`E` will activate the eye-dropper while hovering over a button.
- :kbd:`LMB` dragging will mix the colors you drag over which can help when sampling noisy imagery.
- :kbd:`Spacebar` resets and starts mixing the colors again.


Color Ramp
==========

.. list-table::

   * - .. figure:: /images/Interface-ColorBand-Before.jpg
          :width: 310px

          Colorband before

     - .. figure:: /images/Interface-ColorBand-After.jpg
          :width: 310px

          Colorband after


*Color Ramps* enables the user to specify a range of colors based on color stops.
Color stops are similar to a mark indicating where the exact chosen color should be.
The interval from each of the color stops added to the ramp is a result of the color interpolation and
chosen interpolation method. The available options for Color Ramps are:


Add (Button)
   Clicking on this button will add a stop to your custom weight paint map.
   The stops are added from the last selected stop to the next one, from left to right and
   they will be placed in the middle of both stops.


Delete (Button)
   Deletes the selected color stop from the list.


'F' (Button)
   Flips the color band, inverting the values of the custom weight paint range.


Numeric Field
   Whenever the user adds a color stop to the custom weight paint range, the color stop will receive an index.
   This field shows the indexes added (clicking in the arrows until the counter stops), and allows
   the user to select the color stop from the list. The selected color stop will be shown with a dashed line.


Interpolation Options
   Enables the user to choose from **4** types of calculations for the color interpolation for each color stop.
   Available options are:


   B-Spline
      Uses a *B-Spline* Interpolation for the color stops.
   Cardinal
      Uses a *Cardinal* Interpolation for the color stops.
   Linear
      Uses a *Linear* Interpolation for the color stops.
   Ease
      Uses a *Ease* Interpolation for the color stops.
   Constant
      Uses a *Constant* Interpolation for the color stops.


Position
   This slider controls the positioning of the selected color stop in the range.


Color Bar
   Opens a color Picker for the user to specify color and Alpha for the selected color stop.
   When a color is using Alpha, the Color Bar is then divided in two, with the left side
   showing the base color and the right side showing the color with the alpha value.


.. _curve-widget:

Curve Widget
============

.. figure:: /images/Material-Color-Node-Curves.jpg

   RGB Curves node


The *Curve Widget* is found in several places throughout Blender, such as:

- RGB Curves node
- Vector Curves node
- Paint/Sculpt brush falloff
- Color Management curves

The purpose of the *Curve Widget* is to allow the user to modify an input
(such as an image) in an intuitive manner by
smoothly adjusting the values up and down using the curve.

The input values are mapped to the X-axis of the graph, and the Y-axis is mapped to the output values.


Control Points
--------------

.. |delete-button| image:: /images/Material-Color-Node-Curves-Delpoints-Buticon.jpg

Like all curves in Blender, the curve of the *Curve Widget* is controlled using *control points*.

By default there are two control points: one at ``0.0, 0.0`` and one at ``1.0, 1.0``,
meaning the input is mapped directly to the output (unchanged).

To **move** a control point
   Simply click and drag it around.
To **add** a new control point
   Click anywhere on the curve where there is not already a control point.
To **remove** a control point
   select it and click the |delete-button| button at the top right.


Controls
--------

Above the curve graph is a row of controls. These are:


.. figure:: /images/Material-Vector-Node-Curves-Controls.jpg

   Node curve controls


Channel selector
   Allows to select appropriate curve channel.

   .. figure:: /images/Material-Vector-Node-Curves-Axes.jpg

      Curve channel selector

Zoom In
   Zoom into the center of the graph to show more details and provide more accurate control.
   To navigate around the curve while zoomed in, click and drag in an empty part of the graph.

Zoom Out
   Zoom out of the graph to show less details and view the graph as a whole.
   You cannot zoom out further than the clipping borders (see *Clipping* below).

Tools
   .. figure:: /images/Material-Color-Node-Curves-Tools.jpg

      Advanced tools for curve

   Reset View
      Resets view of the curve.
   Vector Handle
      Vector type of curve point's handle.
   Auto Handle
      Automatic type of curve point's handle.
   Extend Horizontal
      Extends the curve horizontal.
   Extend Extrapolated
      Extends the curve extrapolated.
   Reset Curve
      Resets the curve in default (removes all added curve's points).
Clipping
   Enable/disable clipping and set the values to clip to.

Delete
   Remove the selected control point.


List View
=========

.. Document list view - vertex groups, UV Layers, they have search filtering, rename, scroll, resize etc.

.. figure:: /images/extended_controls_list_view_filter.png

At the bottom of a list view (like the ones found in the object data properties)
there are controls for filtering and sorting and resizing.


Rename
   By pressing (:kbd:`Ctrl`, :kbd:`LMB`) over an item's name, you can edit the text-field.
   This can also be achieved by double clicking.

Resize
   The list view can be resized to show more or less items.
   Hover the mouse over the handle then click and drag the handle to expand or shrink the list.

Filter
   Click the *Show filtering options* button to toggle filter option buttons.

   Type part of a list item's name in the filter text box to filter items by part of their name.

   Filter Include
      When the magnifying glass icon has a ``+`` sign then only items that match the text will be displayed.
   Filter Exclude
      When the magnifying glass icon has a ``-`` sign then only items that do not match text will be displayed.

Sort
   Sort list items.

   Alphabetical
      This button switches between alphabetical and non-alphabetical ordering.

   Inverse
      Sort objects in ascending or descending order. This also applies to alphabetical sorting, if selected.
