manual/data_system/data_blocks.rst, before:


***********
Data-Blocks
***********

The base unit for any Blender project is the data-block.
Examples of data-blocks include:
meshes, objects, materials, textures, node-trees, scenes, texts, brushes and even screens.

For clarity, bones, sequence strips and vertex groups are **not** data-blocks,
they belong to armature, scene and mesh types respectively.

Some common characteristics:

- They're the primary contents of the ``.blend`` file.
- They can link to each other, for reuse and instancing.
  *(child/parent, object/object-data, with modifiers and constraints too).*
- Their names are unique.
- They can be added/removed/edited/duplicated.
- They can be linked between files
  *(only enabled for a limited set of data-blocks)*
- They can have their own animation data.
- They can have custom properties.


When doing more complex projects managing data-blocks becomes more important,
especially when inter-linking ``.blend`` files.


.. figure:: /images/datablocks.jpg
   :width: 400px

   Data-blocks view


Users (Garbage Collection)
==========================

It's good to be aware of how Blender,
handles data-blocks life-time, when they are freed and why.

Blender follows the general rule where unused data is eventually removed.

Since its common to add and remove a lot of data while working,
this has the advantage of not having to manually manage every single data-block.

This works by skipping zero user data-blocks when writing ``.blend`` files.

In some cases you want to save a data-block even when its unused
*(typically for re-usable asset libraries).* see `Fake User`_.


Fake User
---------

Since zero user data-blocks aren't saved.
There are times when you want to force the data to be kept irrespective of its users.

If you're building a ``.blend`` file to serve as a library of things that you intend to link-to from *other* files,
you'll need to make sure that they don't accidentally get deleted from the library file.

Do this by giving the data-blocks a *Fake User*,
by pressing the *F* button next to the name of the data-block.
This prevents the user count from ever becoming zero: therefore,
the data-block won't be deleted.
(since Blender doesn't keep track of how many other files link to this one.)


Users (Sharing)
===============

Many data-blocks can be shared among other data-blocks,

Examples where sharing data is common.

- Sharing textures among materials.
- Sharing meshes between objects (instances).
- Sharing animated actions between objects,
  for example to make all the lights dim together.

You can also share data-blocks between files, see.

- :doc:`linked libraries </data_system/linked_libraries>`.


Removing Data-Blocks
====================

As covered in `Users (Garbage Collection)`_, data-blocks are typically removed when they're no longer used.

There are some exceptions to this however.

Scenes, text, can be removed directly.

Other data-blocks such as groups and actions can be *Unlinked* from the *Outliner* context menu.

.. tip::

   Some data (images especially) is hard to keep track of,
   especially since image views are counted as users.

   For data-blocks that can be unlinked - hold :kbd:`Shift` while pressing on the *X* button,
   This force-clears the user-count, so the data-block will be removed on reload.


.. _data_system-datablock_types:


Data-Block Types
================

.. EDITORS NOTE:
   Mostly we want to avoid long lists of data - but in this case,
   Its the only comprehensive list of data-blocks, and something which you can't
   find directly just though looking at the interface.
   ::
   TODO, add links to related docs for each type.

For reference, here is a table of data-blocks types stored in ``.blend`` files.


:Link: Library Linking, *supports bing linked into other blend files*.
:Pack: File Packing, *supports file contents being packed into the blend file*.


.. EDITORS NOTE:
   For each data-block, we have 2 lines.
   1) a terse description.
   2) how its used.
   ::
   Keep these short.


.. |tick|  unicode:: U+2713
.. |cross| unicode:: U+2717

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Type
     - Link
     - Pack
     - Description
   * - Action
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Stores animation FCurves.
       | Used as data-block animation data,
       | and the Non-Linear-Editor.
   * - Armature
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Skeleton used to deform meshes.
       | Used as object-data & by the Armature Modifier.
   * - Brush
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Used by paint tools.
   * - Camera
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Used as object-data.
   * - Curve
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Used by camera, font & surface objects.
   * - Font
     - |tick|
     - |tick|
     - | References font files.
       | Used by Font object-data.
   * - GreasePencil
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | 2D/3D sketch data.
       | Used as overlay *helper* info, by the
       | 3D-View, Image, Sequencer & MovieClip editors.
   * - Group
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Reference object's.
       | Used by dupli-grous & often library-linking.
   * - Image
     - |tick|
     - |tick|
     - | Image files.
       | Used by textures & shader nodes.
   * - Lamp
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Used as object-data.
   * - Lattice
     - |cross|
     - |cross|
     - | Grid based lattice deformation.
       | Used as object-data and by the Lattice Modifier.
   * - Library
     - |cross|
     - |tick|
     - | References to external ``.blend`` files.
       | Access from the outliner's *Blendfile* view.
   * - LineStyle
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Used by the FreeStyle render-engine.
   * - Mask
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | 2D animated mask curves.
       | Used by compositing nodes & sequencer strip.
   * - Material
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Set shading and texturing render properties.
       | Used by objects, meshes & curves.
   * - Mesh
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Geometry verts/edges/faces.
       | Used as object-data.
   * - MetaBall
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | An isosurface in 3D space.
       | Used as object-data.
   * - MovieClip
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Reference to an image sequence or video file.
       | Used in the motion-tracking editor.
   * - NodeGroup
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Collections of re-usable nodes.
       | Used in the node-editor.
   * - Object
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | An entity in the scene with location,
       | scale, rotation.
       | Used by scenes & groups.
   * - Particle
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Particle settings.
       | Used by particle systems.
   * - Palette
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Store color presets.
       | Access from the paint tools.
   * - Scene
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Primary store of all data displayed and animated.
       | Used as top-level storage for objects & animation.
   * - Screen
     - |cross|
     - |cross|
     - | Screen layout.
       | Used by each window, which has its own screen.
   * - ShapeKeys
     - |cross|
     - |cross|
     - | Geometry shape storage, which can be animated.
       | Used by mesh, curve and lattice objects.
   * - Sounds
     - |tick|
     - |tick|
     - | References to sound files.
       | Used by speaker objects and the game-engine.
   * - Speaker
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Sound sources for a 3D scene.
       | Used as object-data.
   * - Text
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Text data.
       | Used by Python scripts and OSL shaders.
   * - Texture
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | 2D/3D textures.
       | Used by materials, world and brushes.
   * - World
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Used by scenes for render environment settings.

..
   * - WindowManager
     - |cross|
     - |cross|
     - | TODO.

Commit message:

Add in data-blocks which can be removed.
git-svn-id: https://svn.blender.org/svnroot/bf-manual/trunk/blender_docs@849 c4de1f47-6596-e411-a384-0024e86c2797

manual/data_system/data_blocks.rst, after:


***********
Data-Blocks
***********

The base unit for any Blender project is the data-block.
Examples of data-blocks include:
meshes, objects, materials, textures, node-trees, scenes, texts, brushes and even screens.

For clarity, bones, sequence strips and vertex groups are **not** data-blocks,
they belong to armature, scene and mesh types respectively.

Some common characteristics:

- They're the primary contents of the ``.blend`` file.
- They can link to each other, for reuse and instancing.
  *(child/parent, object/object-data, with modifiers and constraints too).*
- Their names are unique.
- They can be added/removed/edited/duplicated.
- They can be linked between files
  *(only enabled for a limited set of data-blocks)*
- They can have their own animation data.
- They can have custom properties.


When doing more complex projects managing data-blocks becomes more important,
especially when inter-linking ``.blend`` files.


.. figure:: /images/datablocks.jpg
   :width: 400px

   Data-blocks view


Users (Garbage Collection)
==========================

It's good to be aware of how Blender,
handles data-blocks life-time, when they are freed and why.

Blender follows the general rule where unused data is eventually removed.

Since its common to add and remove a lot of data while working,
this has the advantage of not having to manually manage every single data-block.

This works by skipping zero user data-blocks when writing ``.blend`` files.

In some cases you want to save a data-block even when its unused
*(typically for re-usable asset libraries).* see `Fake User`_.


Fake User
---------

Since zero user data-blocks aren't saved.
There are times when you want to force the data to be kept irrespective of its users.

If you're building a ``.blend`` file to serve as a library of things that you intend to link-to from *other* files,
you'll need to make sure that they don't accidentally get deleted from the library file.

Do this by giving the data-blocks a *Fake User*,
by pressing the *F* button next to the name of the data-block.
This prevents the user count from ever becoming zero: therefore,
the data-block won't be deleted.
(since Blender doesn't keep track of how many other files link to this one.)


Users (Sharing)
===============

Many data-blocks can be shared among other data-blocks,

Examples where sharing data is common.

- Sharing textures among materials.
- Sharing meshes between objects (instances).
- Sharing animated actions between objects,
  for example to make all the lights dim together.

You can also share data-blocks between files, see.

- :doc:`linked libraries </data_system/linked_libraries>`.


Removing Data-Blocks
====================

As covered in `Users (Garbage Collection)`_, data-blocks are typically removed when they're no longer used.

There are some exceptions to this however.

The following data-blocks can be removed directly:
Scene, Text, Group and Screen.

Other data-blocks such as groups and actions can be *Unlinked* from the *Outliner* context menu.

.. tip::

   Some data (images especially) is hard to keep track of,
   especially since image views are counted as users.

   For data-blocks that can be unlinked - hold :kbd:`Shift` while pressing on the *X* button,
   This force-clears the user-count, so the data-block will be removed on reload.


.. _data_system-datablock_types:


Data-Block Types
================

.. EDITORS NOTE:
   Mostly we want to avoid long lists of data - but in this case,
   Its the only comprehensive list of data-blocks, and something which you can't
   find directly just though looking at the interface.
   ::
   TODO, add links to related docs for each type.

For reference, here is a table of data-blocks types stored in ``.blend`` files.


:Link: Library Linking, *supports bing linked into other blend files*.
:Pack: File Packing, *supports file contents being packed into the blend file*.


.. EDITORS NOTE:
   For each data-block, we have 2 lines.
   1) a terse description.
   2) how its used.
   ::
   Keep these short.


.. |tick|  unicode:: U+2713
.. |cross| unicode:: U+2717

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Type
     - Link
     - Pack
     - Description
   * - Action
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Stores animation FCurves.
       | Used as data-block animation data,
       | and the Non-Linear-Editor.
   * - Armature
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Skeleton used to deform meshes.
       | Used as object-data & by the Armature Modifier.
   * - Brush
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Used by paint tools.
   * - Camera
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Used as object-data.
   * - Curve
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Used by camera, font & surface objects.
   * - Font
     - |tick|
     - |tick|
     - | References font files.
       | Used by Font object-data.
   * - GreasePencil
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | 2D/3D sketch data.
       | Used as overlay *helper* info, by the
       | 3D-View, Image, Sequencer & MovieClip editors.
   * - Group
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Reference object's.
       | Used by dupli-grous & often library-linking.
   * - Image
     - |tick|
     - |tick|
     - | Image files.
       | Used by textures & shader nodes.
   * - Lamp
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Used as object-data.
   * - Lattice
     - |cross|
     - |cross|
     - | Grid based lattice deformation.
       | Used as object-data and by the Lattice Modifier.
   * - Library
     - |cross|
     - |tick|
     - | References to external ``.blend`` files.
       | Access from the outliner's *Blendfile* view.
   * - LineStyle
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Used by the FreeStyle render-engine.
   * - Mask
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | 2D animated mask curves.
       | Used by compositing nodes & sequencer strip.
   * - Material
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Set shading and texturing render properties.
       | Used by objects, meshes & curves.
   * - Mesh
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Geometry verts/edges/faces.
       | Used as object-data.
   * - MetaBall
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | An isosurface in 3D space.
       | Used as object-data.
   * - MovieClip
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Reference to an image sequence or video file.
       | Used in the motion-tracking editor.
   * - NodeGroup
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Collections of re-usable nodes.
       | Used in the node-editor.
   * - Object
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | An entity in the scene with location,
       | scale, rotation.
       | Used by scenes & groups.
   * - Particle
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Particle settings.
       | Used by particle systems.
   * - Palette
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Store color presets.
       | Access from the paint tools.
   * - Scene
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Primary store of all data displayed and animated.
       | Used as top-level storage for objects & animation.
   * - Screen
     - |cross|
     - |cross|
     - | Screen layout.
       | Used by each window, which has its own screen.
   * - ShapeKeys
     - |cross|
     - |cross|
     - | Geometry shape storage, which can be animated.
       | Used by mesh, curve and lattice objects.
   * - Sounds
     - |tick|
     - |tick|
     - | References to sound files.
       | Used by speaker objects and the game-engine.
   * - Speaker
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Sound sources for a 3D scene.
       | Used as object-data.
   * - Text
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Text data.
       | Used by Python scripts and OSL shaders.
   * - Texture
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | 2D/3D textures.
       | Used by materials, world and brushes.
   * - World
     - |tick|
     - |cross|
     - | Used by scenes for render environment settings.

..
   * - WindowManager
     - |cross|
     - |cross|
     - | TODO.
